1	Estimating the seasonal relationship between land surface temperature and normalized difference bareness index using Landsat data series	The present study analyzes the seasonal variability of the relationship between the land surface temperature (LST) and normalized difference bareness index (NDBaI) on different land use/land cover (LULC) in Raipur City, India by using sixty-five Landsat images of four seasons (pre-monsoon, monsoon, post-monsoon, and winter) of 1991-1992, 1995-1996, 1999-2000, 2004-2005, 2009-2010, 2014-2015, and 2018-2019. The mono-window algorithm was used to retrieve LST and Pearson's correlation coefficient was used to generate the LST-NDBaI relationship. The post-monsoon season builds the best correlation (0.59) among the four seasons. The water bodies builds a moderate to strong positive correlation (>0.50) in all the four seasons. On green vegetation, this correlation is moderate to strong positive (>0.54) in the three seasons, except the pre-monsoon season. The built-up area and bare land generate a moderate positive correlation (>0.34) in all the four seasons. Among the four seasons, the post-monsoon season builds the best correlation for all LULC types, whereas the pre-monsoon season has the least correlation. This research work is useful for environmental planning of other citieswith similar climatic conditions.	Landsat, LST, LULC, NDBal, Raipur
2	Classification comparison of Landsat-8 and Sentinel-2 data in Google Earth Engine, study case of the city of Kabul	In recent years, Kabul city's rapid urbanization has adversely affected the urban land cover, such as surface water bodies and croplands. Surface water resources are threatened due to overpopulation in the city either qualitatively or quantitatively, also croplands are being lost with the development of urbanization activities through the city. To monitor and assess surface changes accurately, we classified the city area using satellite images of both Landsat-8 and Sentinel-2 and compared both of their findings. The Support Vector Machine classifier was applied to multi-senor data to classify four different land categories using the same training sites and samples with the same period. All the procedures were conducted in Google Earth Engine (GEE) cloud platform. The surface reflectance bands of both satellites were used for classification. Confusion matrixes were created using the same reference points for Sentinel-2 and Landsat-8 classification to compare the results and determine the best approach for classification of land cover. Results show that overall accuracy was 94.26% for Sentinel-2 while it was 85.04% for Landsat-8, similarly, the Kappa coefficient was calculated 91.7% and 78.3% for Sentinel-2 and Landsat-8, respectively.	Classification, Landsat-8, Sentinel-2, Surface Water, Cropland, Urban and Bare land
3	Clutter removal in millimeter wave GB-SAR images using OTSU’s thresholding method	In this study, a filtering method based on the threshold value of normalized synthetic aperture radar (SAR) data is proposed to eliminate clutter in millimeter wave ground based synthetic aperture radar (GB-SAR) images. In the proposed method, first, stepped frequency continuous wave SAR data are reconstructed by using the back-projection algorithm and focused complex SAR data are obtained. Then, the amplitude values of the complex SAR data are normalized and the best threshold values to distinguish the target from clutter is determined by the OTSU’s thresholding method. Next, a filter mask is created that cancels all data below the computed threshold values. The mask matrix is finally multiplied with the resulted GB-SAR data to eliminate all clutter from the image. With the proposed technique, the best threshold value is determined automatically by directly processing the raw data without converting the SAR data into any RGB images. The proposed technique is validated through real GB-SAR experiments that were carried out in the frequency band of 78-81 GHz. In the experiments, challenging GB-SAR data are obtained using high cluttered background materials, and very successful filtering operations are performed with the proposed technique.	Synthetic Aperture Radar, OTSU, Back projection Algorithm, Clutter Cancellation
4	Investigating changes in land cover in high-density settlement areas by protected scenario	Uncontrolled urban growth is one of the most prominent problems in modern urbanism and planning. Rapid urbanization and population growth cause changes in land cover. In addition, determining the effects of these changes is essential in terms of sustainable urban management policies. Urban growth is a complex, dynamic structure that initiates changes in land cover. For this reason, simulation models are used extensively in planning studies. In this study, land cover simulation of the Sancaktepe district in Istanbul was carried out with the SLEUTH model based on cellular automata (CA). The study aims to identify the damage caused by uncontrolled urbanization. In this context, a scenario was created based on the assumption that forests will be protected based on the changes in land cover that occurred between 1961-2014. The data used in the model were generated from cadastral maps on a parcel basis. For this purpose, four-period data sets (1961-1992-2001-2014) were prepared between 1961-2014. According to the simulation results, 82% of agricultural land, 2% of forest land and 84% of open land will probably be converted into residential use. According to the results, it has been determined that almost all of the open and agricultural land in the towns of Pasakoy and Samandira in the district of Sancaktepe have been converted into residential areas. According to the prediction that the changes in current land cover will continue, no change is expected in forests, while it has been determined that the potential to transform agricultural land and open land into settlement areas is quite high.	GIS, Urban Growth, SLEUTH, Cellular Automata, Land Management
5	3D city model for monitoring flash flood risks in Salalah, Oman	This paper investigates the issues and challenges in using a 3D city model for monitoring flash flood risks in Salalah (Oman) designed using the City Geography Markup Language (CityGML) standards version 2.0. The investigation was made based on the fact that 2D and 2.5D GIS solutions cannot analyse flood complex problems inside the urban area. Hence, the study sought to reduce time and effort for the decision-makers by proposing a 3D city model for flood risk management. The study used geospatial tools and databases such as ArcGIS, Watershed Modelling System (WMS), FME, PostgreSQL-PostGIS, and 3D City Database (3DCityDB) to generate the 3D model and to test the capability of establishing a unified geospatial data structure including the 3D city objects, hydrological data, and geological data. The findings showed the importance of addressing flood risks data and arranging it in the 3D geodatabase. It was also revealed that establishing a 3D city model based on the CityGML standard requires homogenised definitions and standards for city objects (surface and subsurface) as well as hydrological data.	Flood risk management, 3D city model, CityGML
6	Multivariate statistical analysis application to determine factors affecting the parcel value to be used mass real estate valuation approaches	Real estate is a form of immovable asset that enables individuals to exert their property rights and provides a form of material guarantee through its economic value. The economic value of real estate, which is reflected in the price, is an aspect that all countries emphasize today by identifying purchase and sale values in market conditions that are removed from large project rumors and speculations. The more the real estate market value is removed from reality, the more negative its effect will be on the cost-benefit of real estate management. This study aimed to identify the main criteria that affect parcel value, which constitutes a basis for real estate, narrow them down to the optimum level using questionnaires and standardize them. A total of 559 experts working in real estate valuation and 1,915 members of the public that play a role in real estate purchases and sales were contacted in Ankara, Konya and Kayseri, all of which are located in the Central Anatolia Region of Turkey. The factor analysis method was applied to the survey data. Grouping was carried out with 10 factors and the results were interpreted.	Criteria, Factor Analysis, Mass Appraisal, Parcel Value, Real Estate Valuation
10	Investigation of Temporal Baseline Effect on DEMs Derived From COSMO Sky-Med Data	Digital elevation models (DEM) are indispensable elements of sensitive earth science studies. It is important the production and usage of DEMs. The science of remote sensing offers scientists an important source of data on this subject. Radar data, which is an active remote sensing system, has an important capacity in this regard. DEM production using InSAR data has been widely used in the literature in the last decade. The temporal baseline parameter, which is an important factor in data generation from InSAR pairs, also affects the final products. In this study, it is aimed to examine the usability of these data by producing short (4days), medium (84 days) and long (440 days) baseline DEMs using InSAR pairs of COSMO Sky-Med satellite. At the same time, photogrammetric DEMs were produced with unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) in selected pilot areas. The DEMs produced were evaluated in 4 land surface types, namely plain-bare, agricultural, urban and rugged area. In addition, by performing statistical analyzes such as RMSE, MAE, the accuracy of the produced DEMs compared to the DEMs produced with UAV was examined. The results showed that short and medium baseline data give more accurate results than long baseline InSAR pairs. Increasing the temporal baseline, increases the amount of error in the DEMs produced. Also, the effect of land surface types on the produced DEMs was revealed in the results of the study.	InSAR, DEM, Baseline, COSMO Sky-Med
11	A new approach for matching road lines using efficiency rates of similarity measures	The lack of common semantic information among corresponding geo-objects in different datasets required new matching approaches based on geometric and topological measures. In this study, a semi-automated matching approach based on the matching capabilities of geometric and topological measures was proposed. In the first stage, after the initial matching performed by a scoring system, the efficiency of each measure on the matching accuracy is evaluated manually by an operator. In the second stage, (1) the score of each measure is updated in accordance with the accuracy distributions. This means that the score of a measure is increased if it is relatively more significant than others. Finally, (2) matching process is repeated with new scores. The proposed approach was tested by matching tree-, cellular-, and hybrid-patterned road lines in municipal, private navigation, and OpenStreetMap datasets. The experimental testing shows that it has satisfactory results both in accuracy and completeness. F-measure is over 86% in hybrid-patterned Bosphorus datasets.	Object matching, Similarity measure, Efficiency ratio, Geometric integration, Map conflation
12	Comparison of point cloud filtering methods with data acquired by photogrammetric method and RGB-D sensors	Point clouds (PCs) are inevitable sources to generate digital solid model-based applications such as reverse engineering, differential 3D modelling, 3D sensing and modelling of environments, scene reconstruction, augmented reality. Photogrammetric methods, Terrestrial Laser Scanners and RGB-D sensors are relatively common among the technologies used to capture PCs. Because of their structural characteristics, measuring systems produce large amounts of noise that cannot be precisely predicted in type and amplitude. Due to the noisy measurements, the spatial orientations of the differential surface particles and the spatial locations of the corner points have a certain degree of deformation. In order to increase visual, spatial and physical quality of the solid model, which is frequently used in reverse engineering, PCs must be filtered to discard noise and outlier. In this paper PC produced from different methods was filtering with Shepard Inverse Distance Weighting method, Gaussian Filtering method, Single Value Decomposition Based Plane Fitting method and Optimization Based Plane Fitting method. Backtracking Search Optimization Algorithm (BSA) was used to fitting plane. Experimental results were compared visually and statistical according to the number of neighborhoods. The results showed that Backtracking Search Optimization based filtering supplied better noise smoothing results than its competitors.	Point cloud, Photogrammetry, RGB-D Sensor, Terrestrial Laser Scanners, Backtracking Search, Optimization Based Filter
13	A new color distance measure formulated from the cooperation of the Euclidean and the vector angular differences for lidar point cloud segmentation	Two important features of the points in the LiDAR point clouds are the spatial and the color features. The spatial feature is mostly used in the point cloud processing field due to its 3D informative and distinctive characteristic. The local geometric difference derived from the spatial features of the points is usually benefited by graph-based point cloud segmentation methods, because the geometric features of the local point groups are highly distinctive. In this paper, we use both the geometric and color differences of the adjacent local point groups at the impact rates 0.3, 0.5, and 0.7 and cooperate the Euclidean and the vector color differences within several averaging techniques for the color difference. The difference forms have been tested within a graph-based segmentation method on four point cloud segmentation datasets, two indoor and two outdoor, using their spatial and color information. The geometric mean as an averaging techniques increases the segmentation success for the all datasets except one outdoor when the color differences are used in the segmentation at the impact rate 0.3, while the harmonic mean increases the success for the all datasets the successes except the other outdoor at the same impact rate. According to the test results, the cooperating of the Euclidean and vector angular color difference measurements can considerable increase the segmentation success on the point clouds with color information in a high quality.	Point Cloud Segmentation, Weighting, Color Distance, Measurement Vector, Angular Difference
14	Fully optimized multilayer radar absorber design using multi-objective abc algorithm	Main purpose of the design of multi-layer radar absorber (MRA) by means of metaheuristic optimization algorithms is to minimize both the total thickness (TT) of MRA and the maximum reflection coefficients for transverse electric (RTE) & transverse magnetic (RTM) polarizations at any oblique angle of incidence. For this purpose, sequence and thicknesses of layers of the MRA have been optimized by either single-objective approach based on combining all objectives or double-objective approach in which TT is evaluated separately from the reflection coefficients. In this study, triple-objective artificial bee colony (TO-ABC) algorithm integrated with Pareto front technique is proposed for fully optimized MRA design. Thus, both RTE, RTM and TT are simultaneously minimized by optimizing thickness, sequence and number of the layers. To demonstrate the superiority of TO-ABC, 3 types of MRAs operating at the frequency ranges of 2–18 GHz for each angle of incidence from 0? to 60? are optimized and compared with the literature. Furthermore, 4 different real MRAs are also optimized using real materials given in the literature. Thanks to the developed graphical user interface and TO-ABC algorithm, despite the limited number of materials, all possible solutions providing the specified parameters are easily achieved and successful MRA structures are designed.	: Multi-objective optimization, Pareto front, Radar absorbing material (RAM), Triple objective ABC
15	Relationship between land surface temperature and normalized difference water index on various land surfaces: A seasonal analysis	The present study examines the seasonal relationship between land surface temperature (LST) and normalized difference water index (NDWI) on various land surfaces in Raipur City of India by using a series of Landsat images for four specific seasons since 1991-92. The LST is retrieved using the mono-window algorithm technique. The results show that the LST of the study area is noticeably affected by surface composition. The best correlation (correlation coefficient r = 0.42) between the LST and NDWI is achieved in the post-monsoon season, followed by the monsoon season (r = 0.33), pre-monsoon season (r = 0.25), and winter season (r = 0.04). There is a moderate negative correlation (r = -0.49, -0.33, -0.31, and -0.25 in the pre-monsoon, monsoon, post-monsoon, and winter season, respectively) generated between the LST and NDWI on water bodies. On green vegetation, this LST-NDWI correlation is moderate positive (r = 0.67, 0.43, 0.50, and 0.25 in the pre-monsoon, monsoon, post-monsoon, and winter season, respectively). On human settlement and barren land surface, the correlation is weak positive (r = 0.24, 0.21, 0.27, and 0.15 in the pre-monsoon, monsoon, post-monsoon, and winter season, respectively). The output of the research work can be used in the town planning section of any urban agglomeration.	Landsat, Land surface, LST, NDWI, Raipur
16	Mathematical modeling and production of semi-active hand prosthesis from clear resin	In this study, the static, kinematic and dynamic behaviors of a semi-active hand prosthesis were analyzed numerically. Finite Elements method was used in static analysis and analytical method was used in kinematic and dynamic analysis. The mathematical model of the hand was created in kinematic and dynamic analysis. Using the mathematical model obtained, torque values of 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, 90 degrees were calculated according to the different position angles of the fingers. Examination was performed for 4 fingers (index finger, middle finger, ring finger, little finger) and 5 kg of force was applied to the fingertips perpendicular to the finger plane. In this examination, the forces are divided into 25% for the index finger, 35% for the middle finger, 25% for the ring finger and 15% for the little finger. The results obtained for forces at different angles under the specified conditions were explained. As a result of all these stages, the prosthetic hand was designed. The design was calculated as linear statically by the finite element method. As a result of the study, a semi-active prosthetic hand was produced considering the calculation findings. Clear resin was used as material.	Finite Element Method, Hand prosthesis, Kinematic, Kinetic
19	Accuracy comparison of interior orientation parameters from different photogrammetric software and direct linear transformation method	The integration of computer vision algorithms and photogrammetric methods leads to procedures that increasingly automate the image-based 3D modeling process. The main objective of photogrammetry is to obtain a three-dimensional model using terrestrial or aerial images. Calibration of the camera and detection of the orientation parameters are important for obtaining accurate and reliable 3D models. For this purpose, many methods have been developed in the literature. However, since each method has different mathematical background, calibration results may be different. In this study, the effect of camera interior orientation parameters obtained from different methods on the accuracy of three-dimensional model will be examined. In this context, a test area consisting of 21 points was used. The test network was coordinated in a local coordinate system using geodetic methods. Some points of the test area were selected as the check point and accuracy analysis was performed. Direct Linear Transformation (DLT) method, MATLAB, Agisoft Lens, Photomodeler, 3D Flow Zephyr software were analysed. The lowest error value of 7.7 cm was achieved by modelling with Agisoft Lens.	Camera Calibration, Accuracy Assessment, Three Dimensional Model, Photogrammetry, Interior Orientation
20	Multi criteria decision analysis to determine the suitability of agricultural crops for land consolidation areas	Crop selection for sustainable and effective agricultural land management has to take into accounts several issues such as chemical, physical, environmental, economic and social conditions. Especially after land consolidation projects, sustainable agricultural crop management should be investigated for each crop which are suitable for the project area to benefit from the land consolidation contributions such as irrigation, roads, modified parcel boundaries and surfaces. Thus, Geographical Information Systems (GIS) aided suitability analysis techniques are required to determine the suitable crops for the consolidated areas. In this study, Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) and Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) multi-criteria decision techniques are integrated with GIS to determine most suitable crops for parcels. The suitability maps of wheat, clover, sugar beet and corn crops are generated for the projected area using 63 Land Mapping Units (LMU) with considering pH, lime, texture, salinity, organic matter, electrical conductivity, permeability, slope, aspect and the distance to settlements and roads within chemical, physical, topological and socio-economic criteria.	Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis, Analytical Hierarchy Process, TOPSIS, Geographical Information Systems, Sustainable land management
21	Analysis of literature on 3D cadastre	In this study, it is aimed to analyse the three-dimensional (3D) cadastre literature in terms of legal, institutional, and technical aspects. For this purpose, 441 publications published between 2001 and 2019 were examined. In the literature, which includes publications from 59 different countries the studies mostly focused on technical issues. An international consensus on legal, institutional, and technical aspects of a 3D cadastre solution seems difficult. Since rights, restrictions, and responsibilities with a 3D component are somehow registered administratively, stakeholders from the legal domain are reluctant to 3D cadastre. From a technical point of view, the technology required to use 3D digital data for registration has matured sufficiently in the past twenty years. However, further research on a real 3D cadastre solution, creating a workflow that considers both current legal and technical framework beyond pilot studies, is needed.	Cadastre, 3D Cadastre, LADM, Literature Survey
22	Accuracy assessment of digital surface models from unmanned aerial vehicles’ imagery on archaeological sites	With the developing technologies, the use of unmanned aerial vehicles’s (UAV) is increasing in all areas. Compared with the conventional photogrammetry and remote sensing sensors, UAVs are more convenient to collect data for small areas. In this study, the accuracy of UAV products was investigated in the archeological area of Eskişehir Şarhöyük. In order to produce reference data for the orthophoto and DTM accuracy analysis, a digital map from the test area was produced using in-situ measurements. Also, for the comparison of the point cloud, a small test area was determined and reference point cloud data was collected with terrestrial laser scanner. The comparison of the results showed significant difference between the UAV images and images collected by conventional methods. Thus, while there was 1 m difference between the data without the use of control points, and the use of control points significantly improved the results.	Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, Digital surface model, Accuracy analysis, GIS, Remote sensing
23	Determining the habitat fragmentation thru geoscience capabilities in Turkey: A case study of wildlife refuges	"Technical forest management started 180 years ago in Turkey, during which time there have been various approaches and policy changes. The primary objective of forestry has been considered as timber production, so the intangible benefits have never been given the proper attention they deserve. The majority of Turkey’s wildlife has prospered within the forest ecosystems. This situation has gradually led to a change of status, so some forests and land areas have been reassigned with the conservation agendas as the primary purpose; however timber production has never slowed down. Thus, operational forestry practices, such as roading, logging, etc., have kept on exploiting these lands to their full extent despite their conservation statuses. In Turkey and anywhere else, since forestry has always evolved around extracting the timber out of the forest lands, the accessibility has long been provided, building roads to take related services to forested ecosystems. The remnants of these roads, along with the more standardized new ones can be found everywhere, regardless of the land status. Such expansion has resulted in habitat fragmentation emerging as a major threat for the protected areas. In this study, the expansion of all-weather and dry-weather accessible roads and suburban spread was examined in two adjacent, Ilgaz and Gavurdagi, wildlife refuges for the years of 1960, 1993, 2010 and 2019, relying heavily on the mapping, geographic information systems (GIS) and remote sensing. It was found that 275.5 km dry-weather roads in 1960 rose to 700 km in 2017, which meant 254% increase. Additionally, when the core along with the surrounding 3000 m buffer area was considered, 51 km all-weather roads in 1960 increased almost four and a half times by 2019. Suburban expansion was relatively stable inside the core area but had almost quadrupled within the surrounding areas, exposing the refuges to more people. These findings indicated that the wildlife habitats of Turkey are fragmented and under heavy human pressure."	Fragmentation, Roading, Suburban expansion, Geographic Information Systems, Landsat
24	Determining highway slope ratio using a method based on slope angle calculation	Geographic Information System (GIS) is a vital tool used in numerous areas related to natural science and engineering studies. Managing complex data and obtaining accurate results from the analysis are essential functions of GIS. It is also efficiently used in highway designing both in project and application phases. This study proposes a new calculation method of slope angles to determine the suitable slope modal of a road by using topographic and geological datasets in a GIS environment. Using this method in the preparation phase of the project enables a more accurate calculation of earthwork volume. The proposed method was applied to a highway to prove this idea. The selected road is a significant tertiary of which project was completed by the Turkish General Directorate of Highways. In this study, the calculated values of the project were considered as references. Comparing both results obtained from the proposed method and application project, the accuracy of the slope modal of the proposed method is 71%, and the accuracy of its earthwork volume is 99%. The proposed approach will enable project managers and designers to determine more reliable earthwork volume during project feasibility studies without any application in the field.	Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Highway construction, Stability analysis, Slope ratio, Slope angle
25	Investigation of Open Circuit Potential of Lithium-Ion Battery by The Taguchi Design	Lithium-ion batteries are widely used in electric vehicles. A robust battery management system is a very important issue for lithium-ion batteries due to the safety of electric vehicles. In this study, simultaneous main influences of charg-ing factors on open circuit potential were statistically determined by using the Taguchi design. The response table and variance analysis were performed to de-termine the significant charging factors on a lithium-ion battery. The results showed that the battery potential was the most influential charging factor to the open circuit potential. Furthermore, the statistically significant correlation be-tween each charging factor and open circuit potential was determined based on a 95% significance level. The interactions between charging factors were demon-strated by the non-parallel lines presented on the interaction plots. The findings can guide the battery management and control methods for lithium-ion batteries used in electric vehicles.	Battery management, Charging protocol, Lithium-ion battery, Statistical analysis
26	INVESTIGATION OF THE EFFECT OF CARBONATION CAKE ON RHEOLOGICAL PROPERTIES OF BITUMINOUS BINDERS	Aggregates and bitumen used in road flexible pavements are non-renewable natural materials and in terms of sustainability, it is of great importance that the service life of road pavements is long. Waste materials are also rising with increasing products due to industrial development. The evaluation of waste materials both prevents the destruction of nature by reducing the use of very limited natural materials and reduces the environmental problems in case of storage of waste materials. In this study, carbonation cake, which is a waste of sugar factory, was added to bitumen. Penetration, softening point, rotational viscosity and dynamic shear rheometer tests were applied on pure and modified bitumen. According to the results, it was determined that carbonation cake had no positive or negative effect on medium and high temperature rheological properties of bitumen. From the experiments, promising results have been obtained for the disposal of waste carbonation cake in a different area.	Carbonation Cake, Bitumen, Addition, Rheology
27	Design and Prototyping of Powered Sliding Door for Light Commercial Vehicles	This study presents the powered sliding door (PSLD) design and prototype for light commercial vehicles. First of all, the literature and patent research are done. And the state of the art for sliding door mechanism types and electronic control methods are investigated. Then, the requirements, specifications and regulations of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) are dealt with and design require-ments and criteria are determined. The performance requirements of the electric motor for the sliding door main unit are calculated according to the design crite-ria and the vehicle door. The main unit is designed to actuate the sliding door as per the design criteria by defining the electric motor. The vehicle door must be unlocked before opening or closing the door. Unlocking actuator is developed for this process. Subsequently, the electronic control unit (DCU) is designed to control the components and actuators. In order to solve the problem frequently encountered in obstacle detection when the vehicle is on a slope, the current lim-its are updated according to the current information read from the electric motor and the vehicle slope information, and the obstacle detection is tried to be per-formed. Finally, testing and verification studies are performed according to the design requirements.	Powered sliding door, automotive actuators, obstacle detection, product development process
28	WIDE BAND METAMATERIAL ABSORBER WITH LUMPED ELEMENT	Many researchers take attention to the significance of harvesting energy from electromagnetic radiation to use in sensor networks. The purpose of this study is to design and analysis of a metamaterial absorber that has the ability to absorb energy in the microwave frequency band with perfect absorption. The results show that the proposed design is a good candidate for supply power from electromagnetic waves to sensor networks.	Microwave, Metamaterials, Wide band absorber, Perfect absorption
36	The Usage of Mg - Metal Chlorides in Hydrogen Generation	The reaction of metals with water is one of the hydrogen generation methods. Mg stands out as a viable alternative when compared to other metals for producing hydrogen. However, the emergence of Mg(OH)2, which interrupts hydrogen production in its reaction with water, has led to the search for new methods to improve the hydrogen production process. For this reason, in our study, chloride salts (CoCl2 and AlCl3) have been used to improve hydrogen generation. The composites have been prepared with the addition of different chlorides (AlCl3 and CoCl2) into Mg with ball milling. AlCl3 and CoCl2 have been used separately and together while forming Mg metal composite powder. Powder mixtures have been grounded by a planetary ball mill at different times (2 and 4 hours). Deformations, which are thought to contribute positively to the reaction, have been obtained on the metal surface with ball milling. The microscopic images of the powder mixtures have been analyzed by SEM. In addition, distilled water, acetic acid and citric acid have been used in our study to observe the effects of hydrogen production. When distilled water has been used with powder mixtures in the hydrogen generation experiments, a minimal amount of hydrogen gas output has been observed. It has been observed that the use of acetic acid or citric acid solutions significantly enhances the amount of hydrogen formed. 4 hours milled Mg- 10wt% CoCl2 composite has the best hydrolysis properties for all experiments with its 138 ml of hydrogen generation at 30oC in 30 ml, 2 M citric acid solution.	Mg, Hydrogen Production, Mg- Metal chloride composites, Ball- milling
38	Attitudes Towards Vaccines And Intention to Vaccinate Against Covid-19: A Statistical Analyze	The aim of present study is to analyze the attitude towards Covid 19 vaccine in Kocaeli province and the factors that may cause this attitude. Data were applied to 248 people via an online survey. The survey consists of three parts: demographic data, data on vaccine attitude and level of knowledge about the vaccine. The association between the idea of being vaccinated and demographic variables was examined with Pearson Chi-Square analysis and a significant relationship was found only in terms of age and marital status variables. Pearson's correlation analysis was used to determine the relationship between the vaccine attitude scores and the level of knowledge about the vaccine. T test was used to determine whether it differentiated according to chronic illness and it was determined that it did not.One-Way Anova was used for the relationship between fear level against Covid 19 and attitude towards vaccine and it was observed that there was a significant difference. The effect of seeing social media and television as a source of information on the idea of vaccination was examined using Ordinal Logistics Regression according to the determined reference values and it was seen that there was a significant difference. Also domestic vaccine positively affects the attitude towards vaccine.	Covid 19, Vaccination Attitude, Statistical Analyze, A Survey Study
39	Numerical Analysis of Geotechnical Seismic Isolation System for High-Rise Buildings	"Seismic isolation is a method of protecting a building from earthquake-induced deformations by using isolators and devices under the superstructure. The purpose of the seismic isolation method is to reduce the earthquake forces transferred from the ground to the structure by placing energy-absorbing elements between the foundation and superstructure. Especially in developing countries, the ""Geotechnical Seismic Isolation (GSI)"" system has been proposed as a new isolation method to reduce earthquake-induced damages on buildings. In this study, it is aimed to reduce the effects of earthquakes in a multi-story building with an isolation layer formed with a mixture of rubber-sand (RSM). For this purpose, a 10-story reinforced concrete building was modeled numerically. A seismic energy absorbent RSM layer was placed beneath the foundation of the building. Geosynthetic layers are used to prevent the contact of the RSM layer with the natural soil. The developed model was tested under real earthquake motions with varying amplitudes. The performance of the developed RSM layer has been evaluated in terms of reducing the earthquake effects on the analyzed building model. The analysis was carried out with the dynamic module of the PLAXIS 2D finite element program."	Geotechnical Seismic Isolation, Rubber Soil Mixture, Dynamic Analysis
40	INVESTIGATION OF HOME TYPE HELIOSTAT SYSTEMS DAYLIGHTING PERFORMANCE WITH LIGHTING SIMULATION METHOD	Solar energy, which is an unlimited, costless and clean type of energy, is often preferred in architecture also as in all other areas. Today, all new technologies are made by focusing on solar energy. The main objective of lighting design in buildings is, to minimize energy consumption by keeping health and visual comfort at a high level. In this study, a home type heliostat system which is one of the modern and economic heliostat systems was introduced and its properties are listed. Based on the features of home type heliostat systems, all components of the system are modeled in a 3 Dimension stereolithography format. The daylighting performance of the home type heliostat systems was observed with the lighting simulation method. DIALux lighting design software was used in the study. The results show that the home type heliostat systems can successfully transfer natural light into the building in a simulation environment created by modeling and contribute to lux values.	sustainability, daylighting, dialux, heliostat, solar architecture
41	Nonlinear and Equivalent Linear Site Response Analysis of Istanbul Soils	The effect of local soil characteristics on the propagation of earthquake waves has been commonly studied by researchers. However, the validity of the results obtained by these studies is limited only to the relevant soil conditions. The main purpose of this study is to examine the effect of soil conditions on the propagation of seismic waves in Istanbul. In this regard, soil information belonging to different districts of Istanbul has been compiled. The site response analysis was simulated using a time-domain nonlinear response analysis based on the effective stress method and frequency-domain equivalent linear analysis based on the total stress method. A widely used one-dimensional response analysis program DEEPSOIL was used to estimate the soil response of the sites. Modeled soil profiles were subjected to 1999 Kocaeli earthquake motion and the results of the analysis are presented as spectral acceleration, PGA, and lateral displacements. The results obtained from both of the analyses were evaluated comparatively in terms of the effect of soil properties on the propagation of the seismic waves. The effect of the analysis method based on different approaches on the results is examined. The highlighting results obtained on how the propagation of earthquake waves will be affected by soil conditions. The liquefaction potential of soil profiles was also evaluated using the data of the soil properties of the investigation area.	Site response, Equivalent Linear Analysis, nonlinear Analysis, DEEPSOIL, Earthquake
42	Microfluidic Technology and Biomedical Field	It is seen that the development of microfluidic laboratories working passively on chips has increased over the years. The field of microfluidics includes the use of microstructured devices, which typically have micrometer sizes and allow precise processing of low volumes. Nano fields are the main fields of nanotechnology, which includes science fields such as earth science, organic chemistry, molecular biology, semiconductor physics, micromachinery where the control of the atomic and molecular unit will take place. New techniques are needed to meet existing needs for the development phase. Micro and nano-volume multi-stage systems through micrometer-sized channels and microfluidics, which are many applied science branches, have become widespread in engineering. The circulation of fluids in systems through micrometer-sized channels examines factors that can affect the behavior of fluids, such as surface tension, energy use, and fluid resistance in the system. Microfluidic devices and systems have a variety of functions to replace routine biomedical analysis and diagnostics. It emphasizes a higher level of system integration with advanced automation, control and High Efficiency processing potential while consuming small amounts of sample and reagent in less time. Thanks to miniaturization, better diagnostic speed, cost effectiveness, ergonomics and sensitivity can be achieved. This article describes microfluidic technology, including system components. Literature review will be made in studies completed or ongoing world wide. The mechanisms, applications and recent developments related to microfluidic techniques are listed. Presents current research topics and possible future research in the biomedical field in microfluidic technology.	Microfluidic, Microtechnology, Miniaturized, Sensors
43	Determination of Breakfast Habits of Health School Students and the Factors Affecting Them: Bitlis Eren University Example	In this study, it was aimed to determine the breakfast habits of Health School students and the factors affecting them. The research was conducted with 120 students representing Bitlis Eren University Health School students. Questionnaire form was used as data collection tool. As a result of the study, it was observed that 35.8% of the students had a regular breakfast every day, and 3.3% did not have breakfast. It was determined that 48.3% of the students who skipped breakfast skipped because of waking up late, 24.2% due to lack of appetite in the mornings, 10% because of not caring, 5% because of dislike to eat breakfast, 2.5% for economic insufficiency, and 2.5% for fear of gaining weight. They reported that the most common situations encountered by students when they did not eat breakfast were the feeling of hunger, weakness, fatigue, and decreased attention. The majority of the students think that breakfast enables a fresh start to the day, breakfast is the most important meal of the day and breakfast helps regulate blood sugar. It was observed that students whose fathers were public employees skip breakfast more (p <0.001). As the monthly income of the students' family increased, the rate of skipping breakfast increased (p <0.05). The effect of the smoking status on skipping breakfast were found to be significant (p <0.01).	School of health, Healthy eating, Skip meals, Breakfast habit
44	A new maximum length of the Spicara flexuosa Rafinesque, 1810 in the coastal waters of the Turkey	A five years old male individual of Spicara flexuosa was captured by trammel nets on February 13, 2021, at 15 m depths from Black Sea region. The total length and weight were measured as 235 mm and 144.06 g. This specimen is the largest that has been reported in coastal waters of the Turkey. Some morphometric aspects of the sampled picarel were also given. The otolith weight was determined as 0.0563 g. Otolith length and width were measured as 8044.31 ?m and 4596.48 ?m, respectively. Further the abundance and distribution of S. flexuosa should be monitored in the Black Sea.	Maximum size, Centracanthidae, Picarel, morphology, Turkey
50	A computational method based on interval length for fuzzy time series forecasting	n the literature, there have been a good many different forecasting methods related forecasting problems of fuzzy time series. The main issue of fuzzy time series forecasting is the accuracy of the forecasted values. The forecasting accuracy rate is affected by the length of each interval in the universe of discourse. Thus, it is substantial to determine the length of each interval. In this study, new computational method based on class width to determine interval length is proposed and also used coefficient of variation for time series forecasting. After the intervals are formed, the historical time series data set is fuzzified according to fuzzy time series theory. The proposed model has been tested on the student enrollments, University of Alabama and a real life problem of rice production for containing higher uncertainty. This method was compared with existent methods to determine the effectiveness in terms of the mean square error (MSE) and the average forecasting (AFE). The results are shown that the proposed model can achieve a higher forecasting accuracy rate than the existent models.	interval length, coefficient of variation, fuzzy time series, forecasting.
51	Some Inequalities on Half Lightlike Submanifolds of a Lorentzian Manifold with Semi-Symmetric Metric Connection	In this paper, we introduce some inequalities for screen homothetic half lightlike submanifolds of a real space form of constant sectional curvature , endowed with semi-symmetric metric connection. Using these inequalities, we derive some characterizations for such half lightlike submanifolds. Finally, Chen-Ricci inequalities are calculated. Morever, the equality cases are considered and we get some results.	"Chen inequalities;, Half lightlike submanifold;, Semi-symmetric metric connection"
78	Resolvent Operator of the Matrix Schrödinger Equation on the Half-Line with Quasi-selfadjoint Potential	We obtain the resolvent operator of the matrix Schrödinger equation on the half-line with a quasi-selfadjoint matrix potential Q. We also assume each entry of Q is Lebesgue measurable on (0,?) and Q has a finite first moment. We impose the general boundary condition at x=0. This boundary value problem is not selfadjoint which makes it valuable and difficult in terms of the spectral analysis. Moreover, considering the most general boundary conditions generalizes many studies in the literature. We introduce the Jost matrix of this boundary value problem. We examine asymptotical and analytical properties of the Jost matrix in order to derive the resolvent operator and point spectrum. We use the quasi-selfadjointness of the matrix potential Q to obtain these properties. We show that the resolvent set consists of squares of the non-singular points of the Jost matrix in the upper complex plane. Moreover, we obtain the Green’s function of this boundary value problem with the help of the Jost matrix. In the light of this main result, we show that the continuous spectrum is [0,?) and the point spectrum consist of squares of the singular points of the Jost matrix in the upper complex plane. We also show that the set of spectral singularities is empty.	Matrix Schrödinger Equation, Jost Matrix, Resolvent Operator, Continuous Spectrum, Eigenvalues, Spectral Singularities
85	GMDH-type neural network-based monthly electricity demand forecasting of Turkey	In this study, it was aimed to develop an accurate forecasting model for the monthly electricity demand of Turkey in the medium-term. For this purpose, the Group Method of Data Handling (GMDH)-type Neural Network (NN) approach was used to structure a nonlinear time-series based forecasting model. A large dataset containing monthly electricity demand was considered for the period of 2003-2018. The developed model was tested in the period of 2019/01-2019/11 in order to determine the generalization ability of the model. The test results showed that the developed model was very close to actual values. The obtained test performances were 2.10 % for mean absolute percentage error (MAPE), 2.36 % for root mean square percentage error (RMSPE) and 0.869 for coefficient of determination (R2). In addition, results of the proposed GMDH-type NN model were compared with the forecasting results of a literature study. The comparison revealed that GMDH-type NN was a better approach for forecasting the monthly electricity demand of Turkey. Finally, the developed model was utilized to forecast monthly electricity demand in the period of 2019/12-2020/12.	Electricity demand, Forecasting, GMDH neural network, Modeling
87	Recombinant production of Thermus aquaticus single-strand binding protein for usage as PCR enhancer	Single-stranded DNA-binding (SSB) proteins play an important role in DNA metabolism involving DNA replication, recombination, and repair in all living beings. In molecular biology, SSB proteins are used as enhancers to increase the efficiency and specificity of PCR. Thermostable SSB protein eliminates secondary structure or dimer formation and significantly increase the effectiveness of amplification of DNA fragments. In this study, it was ensured that the SSB gene of thermophilic bacteria Thermus aquaticus (T. aquaticus) was cloned into the pET28b vector and expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) PLysE cells. Then, the purification of the SSB protein produced in E. coli BL21 (DE3) PLysE cells was performed. 20 mg SSB protein was obtained from 1L bacterial culture, and its purity was more than 90%. It was shown by the PCR experiment that the SSB protein produced in this study could increase the amplification efficiency.	Polymerase Chain Reaction, Single Strand Binding Protein, Thermus aquaticus
88	Noise Emission from Building Integrated Wind Turbines: A Case Study of a Tall Building	"Tall buildings have the ability to produce wind energy, having been exposed to relatively high airflow speeds at a far distance from ground levels. However, with the introduction of wind energy into urban areas, there are many concerns. These include especially environmental noise impacts since the wind turbines will be located in dense urban areas where tall buildings are mostly located. Therefore, this increasing use of wind energy in the built environment has led to the publication of up-to-date regulations that limit noise levels for wind farms in many European countries. At this point, the following three aspects should be considered for noise emission: the noise source, the distance from the source, and the sound pressure level of the noise source. The choice of wind turbines for urban environments should, therefore, be compatible with low noise levels. In addition, careful positioning of turbines is also important (avoid locations where wind conditions are unfavorable, avoid sensitive places, i.e. areas at which noise levels must be low). It was necessary to calculate the noise in strong winds because the noise from a wind turbine rises with wind velocity. For the measurement of noise emitted from the wind turbine, two potential solutions were proposed until now; either it could be measured in a wind tunnel or it could be measured in the natural wind outside. However, in the early design stage, these types of measurement methods are mostly not preferable due to high financial requirements and long measurement processes. Hence, in this study, wind turbine noise is simulated via software. A case study of a tall mixed-use tower is chosen and the environmental noise distribution due to the wind turbine located on the roof of the tower is simulated. The results may provide an important guideline for architects looking for an acoustically comfortable way to integrate wind turbines into their buildings in the early design stage."	building-integrated wind turbines, wind turbine noise, environmental noise, tall buildings
89	Dose response of gluconic acid doped Fricke gels irradiated with X-rays	Adjusting the dose of radiation which is received by a cancer patient during radiotherapy is very important. The use of dosimetric gels to calculate the applied dose distribution three- dimensionally is a current research topic in radiotherapy. In this study, 16 different Fricke gels including gluconic acid (GA) were produced. These gels were irradiated from 0 to 250 cGy with increments of 50 cGy. MR intensity values and images, UV absorbance values and FT-IR spectra of gels were obtained before and after the irradiation process. The UV absorbance and MR intensity values showed a linear increase in relation to the increase in the applied dose and the amount of ferrous sulfate and GA content in the gels. The oxidation of iron increases as a result of the interaction with hydrogen peroxide which is the product of the irradiation process and GA, and thus the response of the gel to the irradiation process becomes more effective.	Fricke gels, FT-IR, gluconic acid, UV
90	Practical Equations for Calculating the Root Diameter of Bolts	Since bolts can be removed and reassembled, they are often preferred by civil engineers in steel structures. Bolt root (minor) diameter, in other words, the least diameter of the bolt should be considered for most of the bolted connection design. In this case, the designer either takes the root diameter from the tables or calculates it using complex equations. Therefore, practical linear equations for both Standard Metric and Inch Based American bolts with sufficient accuracy were derived. It is claimed that these equations can save the designer from being dependent on the tables or memorizing complex equations.	Bolt, Root Diameter, Minor Diameter, Thread, Steel Structure
94	Torque estimation of electric vehicle motor using adaptive-network based fuzzy inference systems	This paper presents to estimating studies of the torque data of the Electric Vehicle (EV) motor using Adaptive-Network Based Fuzzy Inference Systems (ANFIS). The real-time data set of the Outer-Rotor Permanent Magnet Brushless DC (ORPMBLDC) motor which was designed and manufactured for using in ultra-light EV, was used in these estimation process. The current, the power and the motor speed parameters are defined as input variables, and the torque parameter defined as output variable. Five distinct ANFIS models were designed for torque estimation process and the performances of each model were compared. The most effective model for testing data set among the ANFIS models was anfis: 2 with 98 nodes and 36 fuzzy rules, and the worst model was anfis: 5 with 286 nodes and 125 fuzzy rules. Performance results of all designed models were presented in tables and graphs.	electric vehicle motor, adaptive network based fuzzy inference systems (ANFIS), outer-rotor permanent magnet brushless DC (ORPMBLDC) motor, torque estimation
95	Hydrogen production from groundnut shell via circulating fluidized bed technology	In this study, hydrogen production performances of groundnut shells in a circulating fluidized bed gasifier is evaluated by employing a previously developed and validated model. Basically, we simulate a circulating fluidized bed gasification system that is connected to a water-gas shift reactor, for hydrogen purification with the gasifier temperature of 1150 K. We find that the amount of hydrogen gas produced from circulating fluidized bed gasification of groundnut shells increases from 49.25 kmol to 68.83 kmol (per 1000 kg of raw groundnut shells) when the gasifier is integrated with water-gas shift reactor. We observe that it is possible to obtain a high yield of hydrogen gas from the gasification of groundnut shells. Therefore, we conclude that the groundnut shell is a remarkable feedstock for bioenergy.	Circulating fluidized bed gasification, Groundnut shell, Hydrogen purification, Sustainable energy technology
96	A multivariate nonlinear regression model for the resistance power of a light rail vehicle	In Turkey, 20% of energy use caused by transportation. Light rail transportation has developing nowadays. However, it is very important to issue having information about the energy consumption of the light rail vehicle according to different both vehicle and railway situations. In Turkey, approximately 20% of the energy expended is spent on transportation. Light rail transportation technology is still in an evolving process. In this development process, it is crucial to have information about the energy consumption of the light rail vehicle according to the different situations of both the vehicle and the railway. It is necessary to predict the power losses that will occur under different driving conditions sensitively to ensure energy efficiency in light rail systems. The most important of these power losses is the resistance loss caused by contact with the route. Resistance loss is dependent multiple environmental conditions. The most important of these conditions can be listed as the weight of the light rail vehicle, the instantaneous speed of the vehicle, the curve of the route, the ramp slope of the route and the friction force arising from these conditions. Resistance loss is proportional and linearly dependent to some of these variables while others show reverse or nonlinear dependence. Due to these different types of dependencies, it is seen that a single multivariate nonlinear model is needed to explain the loss of resistance in all different conditions. In this study, a new and accurate model for resistance losses has been developed by fitting numerical values obtained from different scenarios to multivariate nonlinear regression model.	energy efficiency, nonlinear regression, optimization, railway
97	Evaluation through finite element and numerical simulation of triboelectric polymer pairs in vertical contact mode	Triboelectric nanogenerators are shown a recent development in the energy field in various applications powering sensors to biomedical applications. The research development of tribogenerators is trending in the renewable energy area as it can harness waste mechanical energy due to the friction. Studies have shown various mathematical modeling done on the triboelectric principle based on Gauss electric field principle. Triboelectricity generation due to contact electrification depends on various factors that include the surface charge density, materials, the geometrical features of the tribo pairs, the mode of operation in terms of velocity etc. The significance of nanomaterials in the generation of triboelectricity is a research area where polymers have shown good results. In this study, a detailed computational and numerical simulation is done on selected pairs of triboelectric material combination chosen from the triboelectric series. Computational simulation is performed using Comsol Multiphysics to evaluate the output performance in terms of Voc and Qsc. Numerical simulation is performed using MatLab to evaluate the output performance current, power, voltage with respect to time for selected input parameters. The numerical performance of the device is validated by the experiments. The numerical method adopted will be a useful tool for determining the output characteristics of any triboelectric pairs.	Computational, Energy harnessing, Numerical, Simulation, Triboelectric generator
98	Dynamic analysis of a tri-floater with vertical axis wind turbine supported at its centroid	The paper deals with the dynamic analysis of a tri-floater with a 1 MW offshore Vertical Axis Wind Turbine (VAWT) placed at its centroid. Six line catenary mooring system was used for controlling the horizontal movement of the floater. The floater was modeled as a rigid body with six degrees of freedom. Mass, damping and hydrostatic stiffness were calculated by using hydrostatic stability condition. The aerodynamic load on Vertical Axis Wind Turbine was calculated via the stream tube theory. Wave profile was calculated using Airy’s wave theory followed by the use of Morison’s equation to determine the inertial and drag forces on the floater. A computer program was developed by using the MatLab package for force calculation including wind and wave excitations as a dynamic analysis. The Newmark - beta method was performed for these analyses. The equation of motion for the floater was solved in time domain. Restoring force by mooring lines at each instant of time was calculated based on the cable profile. Responses of the tri-floater with VAWT in different sea conditions were analyzed. It was proven that surge, heave and pitch are the predominant motions for a straight (00) wave. These motions were also analyzed for the waves with different inclinations and their responses were also considered and compared.	Dynamic analysis, Offshore wind turbine, Tri-floater, Wind energy, Vertical axis wind turbine
133	Automated Sensor Data Validation and Correction with Long Short-Term Memory Recurring Neural Network Model	Proper irrigation planning by matching reference evapotranspiration (ETo) with active crop growth requirement leads to an improved water usage efficiency and thereby improving the crop yield. ETo is primarily influenced by the following weather parameters the air temperature, relative humidity, wind speed and solar radiation. To make the ETo estimation system fault tolerant it is important to validate the real time data from the weather station, since the sensors used in these weather stations are prone to error due to influence of various environmental factors. A Recurring Neural Network (RNN) based Data Validation and Correction (DVC) algorithm was proposed to identify the faulty data and to correct them. Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) RNN model is used to forecast the weather data such as temperature, solar radiation, wind speed and relative humidity. It uses statistical significance test to identify faulty data and isolate them. Then the DVC approach corrects the faulty data by replacing them by LSTM forecasted data. The performance evaluation of this approach showed better forecasting ability when compared with Seasonal Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (SARIMA) based DVC and thereby improving overall performance of the DVC approach.	Data Validation, LSTM, SARIMA, Reference Evapotranspiration ETo, Weather Data
134	Modelling and Validation of The Production Parameters of Unalloyed Aluminium Sheets	Modelling of process parameters and its validation in Aluninium production industries poses great challenges in the production of Aluminium sheets in Aluminium Manufacturing companies. This research therefore focused on the modelling and validation of production parameters of unalloyed Aluminium sheets in Aluminium manufacturing industries. The process parameters investigated were temperature (T), pressure (P) and percentage by volume of Aluminium (Ap) used. The effects of these process parameters on the mechanical properties of the developed unalloyed Aluminium sheets were modelled to ease Aluminium manufacturing processes in Aluminium industries. From the plots obtained, it was observed that the optimal tensile strength, young modulus of elasticity, shear modulus and Brinell hardness number were 621MPa, 69GPa, 25.5GPa, and 61 at temperature of 1921°C, 1610°C, 1442°C and 1800°C respectively. In comparison with pressure, the obtained values for optimal tensile strength, young modulus of elasticity, shear modulus and Brinell Hardness Number were 562MPa, 68GPa, 26.2GPa and 61 at pressure of 72GPa, 69.5GPa, 69.5GPa and 69.5GPa respectively. Moreover, empirical Models were also developed for predicting the mechanical properties such as tensile strength, young modulus of elasticity, shear modulus and hardness for the produced unalloyed Aluminium sheets. The models were validated using coefficient of determination (R2) and mean absolute percentage error (MAPE). The coefficient of determination (R2) obtained ranges from 0.9213 (92.13%) to 0.9911 (99.11%) which indicates that a substantial good fit was achieved by the regression models developed. The mean absolute percentage error of the developed models also ranges from 0.46% to 3.38% which was below 10% recommended. The values obtained from the validation of these models were therefore found to be satisfactory, and shows good predictability of the model and its adequacy. Finally, the results obtained show that temperature and pressure had great effects on the mechanical properties of the produced unalloyed Aluminium sheets.	Mechanical Properties, Modelling, Process Parameters, Unalloyed Aluminium, Validation of Model
135	Mathematical Modeling of a Diesel Electrical Locomotive	Railway transportation has a huge share of energy consumption in the industry. The efficient power consumption is the most important issue for the minimization of the cost of railway transportation. The control strategy for efficient power consumption is varying due to the type of locomotive. Each type of locomotive needs its specific power model for this purpose.The range of the locomotives used in Turkey are full of diversity according to the type and size of the motor. In this research, DE 24000 type of locomotive is chosen for mathematically modeling of its required power under various load, speed, ramp, and curve conditions. Then a mathematical equation is produced according to these values with Least Square Method. The optimum efficient working point is found as 735.5-ton load and 38km/h speed with the aim of this produced equation.	Transportation, Diesel Electrical (DE) Locomotive, Modeling, Optimization, LSM
136	Application of Differential Transformation Method for Nonlinear Cutting Tool Vibration	This article aims to solve the mathematical model developed for machine tool vibrations by employing Differential Transformation Method (DTM). Multi-step differential transformation method is used as it has been shown to have good accuracy in physical applications. Nondimensionalization (scaling) technique is used in order to fully understand the physical effects of each varying parameter. Transformed function of delayed nonlinear velocity terms are explained. MatLab® software is used for DTM solutions. The equation of motion is solved with the DDE23 function in MatLab® software as well as with MatLab®/Simulink® software to compare the results. The solution of the fundamental DTM which is obtained by using the constant transformed function values which differ from other methods after a certain time period. However, the results obtained with the transformed functions for different values at each sampling time (Multi-Step DTM) give very close results to Simulink® and DDE23.	Vibration, Differential Transformation Method, Delayed Differential Equation, Chatter
137	An Introduction to Software Testing Methodologies	It seems to the authors that ‘testing’ for many of the Computer Engineering or Software Engineering professionals or to laymen means the same as ‘code testing’ or ‘program testing’. Yet, recalling the SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) steps such as Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation or Construction and Maintenance, obviously will tell us that coding is just a piece of SDLC included in the Implementation. Therefore, unit testing, integration testing, black box texting or acceptance testing etc. would not cover the whole SDLC. One then needs any methodology, if available, to encompass all steps of SDLC.The major objective of this article has been to investigate the available methodologies applicable for software testing. During our research, we met TMMi (Test Maturity Model integration) and PRISMA (Product Risk Management) methodologies available in the professional arena. After understanding the characteristics of these methodologies, we attempted to propose a new methodology as a synthesis of these two methodologies.The details of these two methodologies are given in this article, while a newly proposed methodology described in the article will be applied on a web based problem to be reported later.	PRISMA, SDLC, SW Testing Methodology, TMMi
138	Moisture Impact on Wind Density Power Seasonally	Increased carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere and their harmful effects on the atmosphere and humans in general, this increase leads to significant climate changes that continue to affect the coming years. There is an urgent need to develop and increase research on clean energy and find the impact of weather changes, on the turbine's efficiency as a result of density fluctuate. A two-phase flow homogeneous model used to find these changes. The study analyzed the effect of atmospheric conditions, including temperature, humidity and pressure on kinetic energy in the wind through its effect on air density and find the rate of change resulting from these conditions, the air is dry and when the air is humid so the increase or decrease of this energy will affect positively or negatively on the performance of the turbine. The city of Mersin was selected in Turkey for this analysis through the application of air conditions obtained from the General Directorate of Meteorology in Ankara and resolve for accurate and detailed for each season throughout the year 2017, where the temperature varies from 0 to 35 degrees Celsius and humidity of 15 to 99 percent, as well as air pressure from 966.95417 to 1025.9 hPa. The effect of moisture was studied mainly by using thermodynamic laws in this paper.	Moisture, Wind Power, Available Power in Wind, Two-Phase Flow, Wind Density Power
139	Failure Analysis of Hybrid Glass Reinforced Composites in Polymeric Industries	This research deals with the failure analysis of hybrid glass reinforced composites in polymeric industries. In this research, fourteen specimens with different compositions were developed. The produced test specimens had a dimension of 210mm length, 150mm width and 50mm thickness which were in accordanc--e with American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM). The fourteen test specimens produced were subjected to impact test. The critical stress, shear stress and stress distribution for mode I and mode II were investigated and results were obtained. The results obtained shows that specimen A had an optimum critical and shear stress of 9.32 MPa and 25.1 MPa for mode I while specimen C had an optimum critical and shear stress of 2.49 MPa and 7.03 MPa for mode II respectively. It was also observed that specimen I which contained 12 plies of soft mat reinforcement required the least stress magnitude to grow the crack, while specimen C which contained 2 plies of woven roving and one ply of hat mat experienced the highest critical stress. Hence, adequate percentage composition of E-glass and polyester reduces failure in hybrid glass composites in polymeric industries.	Failure Analysis, Fracture Modes, Hybrid Glass Reinforced Composite
140	The Dependence of The Nickel Concentration of ZnO Thin Films for Gas Sensors Applications	Undoped ZnO and Ni-doped ZnO thin films were synthesized on glass substrate using the SILAR method. The aim of this work is the analysis of NO gases using Zn1-xNixO sensors concentrations in the range from 100 ppb to 25 ppm. The gas sensing properties of the films for low NO gas concentrations were carefully investigated within a temperature range from 35 to 135ºC. The gas measurement results revealed that the doping process was strongly affected by the response of Ni-doped ZnO thin films. The Zn0.75Ni0.25O sensor exhibited higher sensitivity, faster response, and recovery times for NO gas at low (100 ppb) concentration. It was concluded that the Ni dopant enhanced the properties of ZnO films for gas sensor applications by changing the microstructure, morphology, and bandgap of ZnO material.	Gas Sensor, ZnO, Low Temperature Range, NO, SILAR Method
141	Wireless Signal Attenuation by Vegetation: Relationship Between Tree Characteristics and Signal Attenuation	Vegetation is a significant factor that affects the Quality of Service of radio waves. Several measurement campaigns have been conducted to predict the effect of trees on a radio wave at the micro and millimetre wavelengths. The experiments show that depth of vegetation is a major factor that contribute to signal attenuation. Furthermore, different components of the vegetation cause different behaviours of the radio wave. The empirical models did not put into to consideration the characteristics of the trees in the vegetation. The analytical approaches using wave theory have considered the vegetation characteristics, density and the geometry. This paper focuses on using existing models to characterise a vegetation based on measured parameters of a tree stand with a view to estimating the density of the foliage within a vegetation accurately. The foliage density will be used as the vegetation parameter in the wave theory model. Simulation of the signal attenuation will be conducted based on the density of the vegetation that will be estimated. The tree species selected for simulation are Pinus, Ash and Silver Birch tree species.	Wireless Signal, Attenuation, Vegetation, Modelling, Trees
142	The Effects Welding Speed and Focal Length on Mechanical Characteristic of Fiber Laser-Welded Structures of DP600 Dual Phase Steel	In this study, the effect of welding speed (3, 3.5, 4 m/min) and focal length (0, 1.4 mm) on the mechanical properties of the welded structure was investigated in the overlap type joining of 1.2 mm sheet thickness DP600 dual phase steel sheet material by fiber laser welding method. For this purpose, tensile-shear tests were performed on the samples joined by laser welding method, and the tensile strength and elongation amounts were determined. Microstructure investigation and microhardness measurements of the welded area were carried out. It is determined that weld joint shape and penetration depth changes according to focal length distance and welding speed, and with the maximum welding speed specimens has the minimum penetration depth. Tensile-shear strength values decreased depending on the increased welding speed for both focal length specimens. It is observed that the microhardness results were affected by welding speed and focal lengths. In 0 mm focal length distance specimens’ hardness values increased according to the increased welding speed, but for –1.4 mm focal length distance the microhardness values decreased with an increased welding speed. The fracture zones and fracture surface morphology also affected by welding speed and focal distance. In 0 mm focal length, all the specimen fractured in base metal with a ductile fracture morphology, but in the –1.4 mm focal length, specimens fractured from the zones which are closer to HAZ and FZ with a brittle fracture morphology.	DP600, DP Steels, Fiber Laser Welding, Welding Speed, Focal Length
143	Case Study for Thermo Mechanical Performance of an Integrated Optic Device via Equation-Based Modelling	"An integrated optical device was modeled in the simulation environment via Comsol software. Model implementation, meshing analysis, the definition of material parameters, analyze and module type was introduced, respectively. At the end of this paper; it was understood that the connection of the bodies with different thermal expansion coefficients causes thermal stress accumulation and deformation. The acquired results reveal that fiber-based components can be analyzed with the contribution of the simulation interface. The literature researches were examined in detail and it was found that no study discusses the modeling of the full structure of the fiber optic integrated optic device. So; this study is crucial because it explains how to model an integrated optic device via simulations and leads the researchers about how to make complex meshing analysis in the presence of thin epoxy layers."	Integrated Optical Device, Multiphysics, Finite Element Analysis
145	Investigation of Manufacturing of a Pelton Turbine Runner of Composite Material on a 3D Printer	Nowadays, different methods are used in manufacturing sector. One of these is the production technique on 3D printers, which is also described as additive manufacturing. In this study, Pelton turbine bucket was produced from composite material (carbon + thermoplastic) on a 3D printer and tested. Analytically, the special pelton turbine bucket designed at TEMSAN has a special form structure. Through additive manufacturing, the turbine runner was manufactured faster and more cost-effectively compared to production out of steel material. Tests were carried out in TEMSAN Hydraulic Test Laboratory at 5-7.5 bar pressure range and 26 l/s and 46 l/s flow rates. The highest breaking strength value was determined as 1775 N.	Pelton Turbine, Additive Manufacturing, Composite Turbine Runner
146	Modal Analysis of Horizontal Axis Wind Turbine Rotor Blade with Distinct Configurations under Aerodynamic Loading Cycle	Q-Blade simulation tool was employed in modal analysis of horizontal axis wind turbine blade with three distinct configurations (with spar, no spar and solid) to determine the configuration with adequate structural integrity under aerodynamic loading conditions. The blade configurations were analysed in four different modes based on the flapwise and edgewise response of the blade to aerodynamic loads/forces, and the corresponding modal eigenfrequencies were evaluated. Bending due to combined effects of flapwise and edgewise modal frequencies on the blade were also evaluated at different rotor blade speeds ranging from 2-8m/s. It was observed that the solid blade configuration had the least modal eigenfrequencies for both flapwise and edgewise response in all the four modes as follows: 22.03 and 62.60 Hz in mode 1, 58.0 and 212.8 Hz in mode 2, 122.6 and 600.6 Hz in mode 3, 194.4 and 1118.9 Hz in mode 4. The rotor blade configuration with No spar had the highest modal eigenfrequencies for both flapwise and edgewise response in all the four modes followed by the blade configuration with spar. Bending of the rotor blade due to combined effects of flapwise and edgewise modal frequencies at the aforementioned blade speeds were also highest in blade configuration with No spar and lowest in the solid blade configuration. The low modal eigenfrequencies and low bending values on the solid blade configuration imply high stiffness and strength but with additional mass, which is why 6000 series aluminium was selected in order to minimize the extra weight.	Wind Turbine, Rotor Blade, Modal Analysis, Bending, Eigenfrequencies, Failure
147	Performance Analysis of Various Classification Algorithms for Computer-Aided Breast Cancer Diagnosis System Using Thermal Medical Images	"One of the most widespread cancer types is breast cancer all over the world. It affects both women and men. Detection of cancer in early-stage is very critical in terms of treatment success. Many studies have been done in image processing, for the detection of cancer using computer-aided diagnosis systems. In this study, the performance of various classification algorithms in cancer detection was analyzed on a thermal image dataset. For this purpose, a graphical user interface based system was developed using MATLAB. The developed system uses five different algorithms; Decision Tree, Support Vector Machine (SVM), Logistic Regression Analysis, K Nearest Neighborhood (KNN), Linear Discriminant Analysis. According to the obtained results, KNN and SVM provide the best performance. The developed system can be used as an assistant system to produce an objective result for the expert in breast cancer diagnosis with the %98.8 success rate."	image processing, image segmentation, thermal image analysis, image classification, feature extraction, breast cancer detection
148	Modelling a Static VAr Compensator consist of TCR and TSC	As an alternative to traditional solutions, systems that flexible alternating current transmission systems (FACTS) have been developed in order to make electrical energy systems more efficient, to improve stability and power quality, and these systems have been used in different parts of the world including our country. In general, FACTS can be described as systems providing voltage, impedance and phase angle control in AC systems. With the recent studies, the use of modern technology devices such as static VAr compensator and static synchronous compensator is becoming more common in order to ensure the energy quality in power systems. Furthermore, due to the developments in semiconductor technology, static VAr compensation systems have been started to be applied on medium and high voltage side. The most important feature of these systems is that they can compensate without needing reactive power from the grid. In this study, necessary reactive power required by the system provided by using a static VAr compensator consisting of thyristor-controlled reactor and thyristor switched capacitor structures. In the simulation studies, the reactive energy is supplied through the static compensator instead of the voltage source. In this way, unnecessary capacity utilization in the system was prevented. It is recommended to use static VAr compensators especially where there is unbalanced load and instant reactive power is required.	Svc, Tcr, Tsc, Facts
149	Quantum Cryptography, Quantum Communicatıon and Quantum Computing Problems and Solutions	The development of quantum technologies will open up new perspectives in the use of quantum algorithms, the creation and modeling of complex physical and biological systems, new physical methods of transmitting, receiving and processing information. In turn, this will give impetus to the development of a large number of applications in the scientific, technical, economic and social spheres of society. Quantum cryptography is a communication protection method based on certain phenomena of quantum physics. Unlike traditional cryptography, which uses mathematical methods to ensure the secrecy of information, quantum cryptography focuses on physics, where information is carried using objects of quantum mechanics. The process of sending and receiving is always carried out by physical means, for example using electrons in an electric current, or photons in fiber-optic communication lines. In this process, the current situation was determined and the problems encountered and the solution suggestions for these problems were tried to be addressed.	Quantum cryptography, quantum communication, quantum computing, quantum problems
150	One-dimensional Center Symmetric Local Binary Pattern Based Epilepsy Detection Method	The diagnosis of epilepsy from the EEG signals is determined by the visual/manual evaluation performed by the neurologist. This evaluation process is laborious and evaluation results vary according to the experience level of neurologists. Therefore, automated systems that will be created using advanced signal processing techniques are important for diagnosis. In this study, a new feature extraction method is proposed using multiple kernel based one-dimensional center symmetric local binary pattern (1D-CSLBP) to identify epileptic seizures. To strengthen this method, levels have been created and multi-level feature extraction has been carried out. Discrete wavelet transform (DWT) was used to generate the levels and feature extraction was performed using the low pass filter coefficient (L bands) obtained at each level. Neighborhood component analysis (NCA) was used to select the most distinctive features. The obtained features are classified using the nearest neighbors (kNN) algorithm. A high performance method was obtained by using multiple kernel NCA and NCA. The 1D-CSLBP and NCA-based method has reached 100.0% accuracy in A-E, A-D-E, D-E, C-E situations.	Feature extraction, local feature generation, feature selection, classification
151	Novel Fuzzy Kernels Based Local Binary Pattern And Local Graph Structure Methods	"Local descriptors are the most effective textural image recognition methods. Local descriptors generally consist of two phases. These are binary feature coding and histogram extraction phases, and they often use the signum function for the binary feature extraction. In this article, new fuzzy-based mathematical kernels are proposed for binary feature encoding in local descriptors. Fuzzy kernels consist of membership degree calculation and coding these membership degrees. In order to calculate membership degrees, four fuzzy sets are utilized. The proposed fuzzy kernels are considered as binary feature-extraction functions, and a novel textural image recognition architecture is created using these fuzzy kernels. These architecture phases are; (1) binary feature coding with fuzzy kernels, (2) calculating lower and upper images, (3) histogram extraction, (4) feature reduction with maximum pooling, (5) classification. In the classification phase, a quadratic kernel-based support vector machine (SVM) classifier is utilized. The presented fuzzy kernels are implemented on the Local Binary Pattern (LBP) and Local Graph Structure (LGS). 16 novel methods are presented using fuzzy kernels for each descriptor. In this article, LBP and LGS are used, and 32 novel fuzzy-based methods are proposed to improve recognition capability. 3 facial images and 3 textural image datasets are used to evaluate the methods' performance. The experimental results clearly illustrate that the fuzzy kernels based LBP and LGS methods have high facial and textural image recognition capability."	Fuzzy coding, local binary pattern, local graph structure, texture recoginiton, biometrics
152	Classification of 40 Different Human Movements with CNN Architectures and Comparison of Their Performance	Detection of human movements has become one of the current issues with the developing technology. Recognition of human movements is used in many areas such as security systems, human computer interaction, human robot interaction. Due to the increase in data stored in databases, deep learning methods have recently become one of the most frequently used methods. At this study, it is aimed to classify human movements by using Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architectures. Images are classified with InceptionV3, Googlenet and Alexnet architectures using a data set with 40 different motion classes. The highest accuracy rate with 76.15% was obtained in InceptionV3 architecture. Increasing the amount of data in CNN networks is a parameter that closely concerns the network uptime. Since 40 different motion classes are used in this study, the results obtained in the related architectures are obtained in different times.	Deep Learning, Human movements, Alexnet, Googlenet, Inceptionv3
153	Correlation Based Regression Imputation (CBRI) Method for Missing Data Imputation	To complete missing values in a dataset is crucial for data mining and machine learning applications. If any parameter of a dataset has missing values, the values of the other parameters corresponding to those missing values should not be excluded from the dataset in order to prevent information in the dataset. Missing values should be handled carefully to avoid their affecting analyses and to prevent loss of information. There are many methods to predict missing values (imputation) that take into account other values of the relevant parameter, but these methods do not consider other parameters. In this study, an algorithm considering other parameters is proposed and its performance is compared with methods that calculate missing data without considering other parameters. The proposed method (CBRI) has been tested with a real dataset, and much more successful results have been obtained compared to the two commonly used imputation methods, mean imputation and median imputation.	Missing values, imputation, data manipulation
154	Enhancing The Data Security by using Audio Steganography with Taylor Series Cryptosystem	Especially in recent years, the security of information and computer systems appears to be a very important issue. Because the heavily used communication network has made life easier as well as accompany serious security problems. To solve these problems, cryptography and steganography have been widely used. To present a more secure model for audios, a simple and secure stego-crypto method is presented. In this work, the hidden data is encrypted by the proposed Taylor series based encryption method and the encrypted data are hidden audio signals by applying the least significant bit (LSB) method. A real-world application is implemented in the proposed model. According to the results, the used encryption model is more efficient than AES. The results and findings demonstrated that this model can be used in a communication security system.	Cryptography, Audio Steganography, Data Steganography, Text Steganography
163	Multi-physics evaluation of the steady-state operation of an Aqueous Homogeneous Reactor for producing Mo-99 for the Brazilian demand	"The studies summarized in this paper aims to predict the steady state operation of a low-enriched uranium fuel ARGUS type aqueous homogeneous reactor for producing 99Mo to meet the domestic demand of Brazil through a coupled multi-physics (Neutronics + Thermal-hydraulics) evaluation. The coupled multi-physics evaluation included aspects related to the neutronic behavior such as fission induced energy deposition profile, medical isotopes production; and the thermal-hydraulic behavior such as temperature, velocities and gas volume fraction profiles. The methodology followed for the multi-physics and multi-scale coupling of the neutronic and thermal-hydraulic codes (MCNP + ANSYS-CFX), discussed in detail in this paper, represent one of the main outcomes of the current study. The methodology was tested for two different operating configurations of the ARGUS reactor, the original high-enriched uranium configuration used since 1981, and the new low-enriched uranium configuration after the conversion process during 2012-2014. The calculations carried out showed that the reactor, in the studied configuration, is able to produce 246.5 six days Curie of 99Mo in operation cycles of five days. Which is equivalent to more than a third of the estimated Brazilian demand for 2025."	Aqueous Homogeneous Reactor, Brazilian demand, Molybdenum-99, multi-physics, Radioisotope production, thermal-hydraulic behavior, Temperature, Velocity, gas volume fraction
176	An investigation of the performances of polarimetric target decompositions using GB-SAR imaging	Ground-based synthetic aperture radar (GB-SAR) systems are mostly utilized to be practical practices in improved understanding of the complex mechanism of microwave backscattering. They also provide complementary information on evaluating the validity of the polarimetric analysis of air-borne or satellite-borne SAR applications. This study investigates some capabilities of polarimetric L-band GB-SAR imaging by testing its performance against a typical terrain and various kinds of manmade targets. Trihedral corner reflectors are also included in the analyses because of their importance in data calibration. Polarimetric backscattering signatures of different targets are analyzed in terms of qualitative assessment of amplitude images and identification and classification of scattering mechanisms through target decomposition techniques. The findings of these analyses and detailed discussions are presented. Specifically, the entropy/mean-alpha ((H/? ?)) classification results are shown to be capable of clearly identifying the dominant scattering mechanisms occurring within the investigated scene.	SAR, Polarimetric SAR, Ground-based SAR, Target decomposition
177	Automatic extraction of trees by using multiple return properties of the lidar point cloud	Airborne laser scanning has been a valuable tool for forestry applications since it began to be used commercially. Thanks to the high 3D resolution provided by the Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) point cloud, it has provided great convenience in complex 3D modeling processes needed for forestry applications such as forest inventory, forest management, determination of carbon stocks and the characterization of biodiversity. LiDAR data provides a new dimension in forestry applications with its high 3D resolution and multiple return characteristics. The extraction of woodland areas from the LiDAR point cloud has great importance for automating the determination of tree heights, species and stand frequency which will be used for generating canopy height models (CHM). In this study, woodland areas in the urban scene were automatically extracted by using the multiple return properties of the LiDAR point cloud. The proposed approach consists of three major steps namely pre-processing, parameter calculation and k-d tree search for trees which were implemented in MATLAB. In the first step, multiple return points have been identified from the LiDAR point cloud, which will be then used to determine possible tree locations. Then, by using Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise (DBSCAN) algorithm, neighborhood relations among the multi return points which were extracted from the initial point cloud data, were formed and a rule-based filter was applied by taking advantage of neighborhood relations. In addition, the initial point cloud was filtered with the Cloth Simulation Filtering (CSF) algorithm to separate ground and non-ground points where non-ground points used to extract trees. In the second step, non-vegetation points were removed by applying a threshold based on the change of curvature and planarity parameters, which are derived from the filtered non–ground point cloud. In the last step, in order to extract trees, a k-d tree structure was created from the filtered non-ground points to find nearest neighbors of each multi return point within a given diameter in the k-d tree structure. In order to evaluate the accuracy of the approach, the extracted boundaries were compared with the manually digitized woodland boundaries from the true orthophoto of the study area using correctness, completeness and quality metrics.	Automatic, Tree Extraction, Lidar, Multiple Return
178	Investigation of the effect of urbanization on land surface temperature example of Bursa	Today, industrialization and urbanization in large cities cause an increase in the surfaces covered with man-made objects such as concrete and asphalt. The expansion of urban areas and increase in the using materials with high heat storage properties, directly affect the Land Surface Temperature (LST), which shows an increase in the sensible temperature of the region. LST is directly connected to the natural green vegetation of the land and varies widely in large urban areas, these differences related to the temperature is defined as the ‘urban heat island’. In this study, it was investigated the temporal variation of land surface temperature due to urbanization. Bursa, which is considered as a study area, has shown a rapid population increase since 1990 and a rapid increase in the number of buildings with the impact of urbanization and industrialisation. To determine the effect of this urbanization and industrialisation on land surface temperature, temporal change analysis of the surface temperature in the Bursa was observed with Landsat satellite images of 1988, 1998, 2008 and 2018. From produced maps, it was observed that the amount of green vegetation in urban areas decreased and as a consequence of this decrease, the surface temperature increased in the urban areas.	Land Surface Temperature (LST), Urban Heat Island (UHI), Normalized Differential Vegetation Index (NDVI), Bursa
179	An investigation of urban development with geographical information systems: 100-year change of Sivas City, Turkey	One of the most important duties of urbanism is to meet the basic needs of people. The need for shelter takes a significant place among the basic needs of people. Urban populations, which are increasing very rapidly nowadays, have made urban development a non-negligible situation. Urban planning should be done by ensuring urban development and without losing the city identity, and a regular development strategy should be adopted according to objective criteria in order to manage the available resources correctly. In this study, the 100-year urban development of Sivas city center was examined with the Geographical Information System (GIS) by considering historic buildings and population projection, and the relationship between housing in the city in this process and implementary zoning plans was investigated.	Sivas, GIS, Urban Development, Urbanization, Temporal analysis
180	Developing a mobile GIS application related to the collection of land data in soil mapping studies	Soil is the one of the most important natural resources having direct and indirect effects on human life, foremost on food supply. Moreover, two of the most important sources used in many sectors such as agriculture, forestry, environment, planning, related to the conservation of soil, are soil maps and soil reports. There is a need for proper and up-to-date soil maps produced with support of technology to achieve sustainable management of land and soil successfully. In order to facilitate the collection of soil data on site in a correct, fast and reliable way in soil survey and mapping studies, and therefore to produce soil maps with high accuracy, a mobile GIS application called “Soil Data System” was developed in this study to work in mobile devices which are driven by Android 5.0 and above. The developed application was tested in “Abadan Erosion Control Project” implementation area, which is located in the boundaries of Ankara, Turkey and was completed in 2016 within the General Directorate of Forestry of The Republic of Turkey, and various findings were obtained after comparing the application with classical soil survey and mapping studies. As a result of the analyzes, it was observed that Soil Data System contributed positively to soil mapping process in many aspects such as accuracy, transparency and time.	GIS, Mobile GIS, Soil, Digital soil mapping
181	Intelligent mapping of irrigated areas from Landsat 8 images using transfer learning	The lack of reliable and up-to-date data in developing countries is a major obstacle to sustainable development. In Morocco, where groundwater withdrawals by farmers are very intensive and informal, maps describing and monitoring the extension of irrigated areas are scarce and labor-intensive to obtain. In this paper a novel transfer learning algorithm is proposed to map irrigated areas at different stages of an agricultural cycle from Landsat 8 images. The results obtained displays satisfactory performance over traditional machine learning algorithms. On a small dataset, we initially tested three well known deep learning architectures (SegNet, DenseNet and Unet). The results obtained were not satisfactory. So, to get high performance, we rely on a transfer learning architecture combining UNet with ResNet50 backbone (trained on 2012 ILSVRC ImageNet dataset) as a baseline after a phase where different configurations were tested. In the first part of this study, we compared the use of three optimization methods: Adam and two variants of Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) associated with two techniques (Cyclical Learning Rate and Warm Restart) to find the optimal learning rate and then test the impact of data augmentation on the overall accuracies. Data augmentation had improved the overall accuracy for the three methods. Adam based method from 94% to 97% with mean IoU of 0,79 (for all land cover classes) and 0,86 for irrigated areas class. For SGD based methods, the overall accuracy had increased from 91% to 94% with mean IoU of 0,75 (for all land cover classes) and 0,82 for irrigated areas class. As we are interested in having irrigated areas maps at different key periods of the agricultural cycle, we also explored, in the second part of this study, the temporal generalization of the best model.	Irrigated areas mapping, Landsat 8, Deep learning, UNet, ResNet50
185	Impacts of Extreme Weather Events on Hydromorphology of UK Rivers	In this study, we assessed the effects of extreme weather events on Hydro-morphological Quality Elements in rivers of the United Kingdom alongside other pressures that will provide significant challenges for the implementation of the Water Framework Directive in the UK in terms of cost-effectiveness and sustainability. While observed meteorological data and river data sets were used for assessing changes in river systems and weather patterns, for future assessments, UK Climate Projections 2018 data was used. The studies in the literature have shown that during periods of extreme events, the river hydro-morphology is affected especially in terms of river flows, sediments and riparian zones such as draughts, and intense and heavy rainfall leading to reduced or exceptionally high flow respectively. Reduced flows can lead to the loss of habitat of aquatic organisms and an increase in fish deaths. Whilst increased river flows lead to changes of the hydro-morphology of rivers including changes to sediment dynamics and channels, rivers are also under negative effects of anthropogenic hydro-morphological pressures such as building dams and water abstractions. Furthermore, changes in river hydro-morphology can cause other problems such as increasing water temperature and decreasing dissolved oxygen, and thereby degrading Biological Quality Elements and Physico-Chemical Quality Elements. To deal with and mitigate these problems, a holistic view of water policy that considers climate change projections, reduces water demand, changes agricultural and urban land use practices, improves water availability and quality is required.	extreme weather events, climate change, water framework directive, ecological quality status, river hydro-morphology
186	The Trichoptera Fauna of Ulupınar Stream and Its Relationship with Water Quality	In this study it was aimed to determine the Trichoptera fauna and water quality of Ulupınar Stream which is an important tourism destination of Antalya, based on physicochemical parameters. In recent years, this stream was adversely affected by intensive agriculture, farming and domestic wastes and was exposed to various pollutants. Seasonal analyses of physicochemical parameters and sampling of organisms belonging to the order Trichoptera were carried out from six stations selected between November 2015 and June 2016. 6 families, 10 genera and 21 species belonging to order Trichoptera were identified. Similarities between the sampling points were clustered by using Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean. As a result of the Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean. analysis, the 4th and 6th sampling point (85%) were the most similar to each other. The Principal Component Analysis was used to determine the factors caused the pollution. The Principal Component Analysis was applied to only physicochemical data sets resulted in three principal components accounting for a cumulative variance of 80.9% of for Ulupınar Stream.	Trıchoptera, Ulupınar Stream, Principle component analysis, water quality
187	Hydrodynamic Modelling Using HİDROTÜRK Model	In this manuscript, the hydrodynamic sub-model components of HİDROTÜRK, the first national hydrological, hydrodynamic, hydrogeological, water quality, and ecological model developed for sustainable management of water resources in Turkey, have been briefly introduced with their basic theoretical and numerical backgrounds. HİDROTÜRK model includes three individually processing hydrodynamic sub-models, namely one (1-D), two (2-D), and three (3-D) dimensional written in FORTRAN programming language. Inputs and outputs of all sub-models are managed through a user-friendly interface. The 1-D hydrodynamic model solves the Saint-Venant equations, which are gradually varied unsteady flow equations written in the flow direction. It applies a dynamic wave routine. 2-D hydrodynamic model numerically solves the unsteady depth-averaged continuity and momentum equations. 2-D model is more reliable for shallow waters where the areal extent of the domain is dominant over the vertical or for completely mixed water bodies through the water depth. The 3-D hydrodynamic numerical model solves the unsteady Navier-Stokes equations in three dimensions only with the Boussinesq assumption. When the water body is deep, and variable circulations over the water depth occur, especially in the simulations of wind and density induced flows, the application of the 3-D hydrodynamic model is crucial. The software developments and preliminary tests of the models by SWMM5.0-EXTRAN and Three Dimensional Hydrodynamic, Transport and Water Quality Model -3D have been completed, and the verification studies are still ongoing. Some applications to Demirköprü Dam Lake in the Gediz River Basin are presented to show the input and output structures of hydrodynamic models.	HİDROTÜRK, hydrodynamic model, momentum, wave routine, continuity
188	The Feasibility Study to Improve the Efficiency of Municipal Water Supply	"The feasibility study was designed to assess water efficiency in municipal water supply systems. The total amount of produced and distributed water was 14,184,650 m3 in 2018 for 79,296 people in Marmaris. Nonetheless, the volume of billed water was only 8,131,491 m3; therefore, the non-revenue water percent was 42.7% involving unbilled authorized consumption (5.1%), physical losses (28.9%), and administrative losses (8.7%). According to projections, water demand including the losses was 14,184,650 m3 in 2018, and is expected to increase to 22,204,429 m3 in the without-project scenario whereas it would reach 19,852,469 m3 in the with-project scenario by the year 2038. Consequently, five measures were proposed; establishing district metered areas and pressure management areas, infrastructure development, updating and extending Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Systems, and other complementary measures to improve the efficiency of the water supply system. Applying the proposed actions would reduce the total water losses from 37.6% to 24.7% (19.9% physical, 4.8% administrative) in 2023, and the value would reach 20.3% (18% physical, 2.3% administrative) in 2038. This study presents that the proposed investment’s estimated total cost is € 2,956,739.26 and is foreseen to be implemented throughout 2021 and 2022. The Payback Period of the investment is 5.5 years (2027), and the Discounted Payback Period is 6.8 years (2028). The assessment shows that the unitary cost of water evolves from 1.31 €/m3 in the current situation to 1.00 -1.30 €/m3 in 2038, based on the scenario selection (with-/without- project scenario) and the investment distribution periods."	Municipal water supply, water use efficiency, water losses management, hydraulic modeling
215	Influence of a Clay Ground Stabilized with Blast Furnace Slag on Flexible Road Pavement Thickness and Cost	It has become a necessity in Highway Engineering, due to today's heavy vehicle traffic loads, that subgrade with weak bearing capacity on which the road trunk will rest be improved with various methods and additives. In this study, it has been aimed to improve a clay soil with weak bearing strength with the contribution of waste blast furnace slag (BFS) and to investigate its effect on the thickness and cost of flexible road pavement. For this purpose, in the study, stabilized mixture samples have been prepared by adding 5, 10, 15, 20% by weight of BFS to the clay soil. After these prepared samples have been mixed homogeneously, standard proctor, unconfined compression and california bearing rate (CBR) tests have been performed to the samples. As a result of experimental studies, it has been observed that the increase in BFS resulted in a decrease in the maximum dry density of the samples and an increase in the optimum moisture content. In addition, the highest unconfined compression strength has been obtained from 20% BFS doped samples. CBR values of the samples tested at this rate increased by 8.71 times compared to pure clay soil. Using these experimental data, the flexible road pavement layer thicknesses to be constructed with the AASHTO 1993 method on the BFS doped ground has been calculated and superstructure cost analyzes have been made with the help of current prices. As a result of the calculations, it has been determined that adding 20% BFS to the soil decreased the road pavement layer thickness by 29.41% compared to the pure clay soil in the design calculation made according to the layer thicknesses determined for both soils. According to the cost calculation results, the cost of the pavement for clayey soils containing 20% BFS has decreased by approximately 5.65% compared to the pure clay soil. According to these results, when the subgrade of a 1000 m long road is improved with 20% BFS, 8,400.00 TL saving will be provided in the cost of flexible pavement.	clay soil, Blast furnace slag, Stabilization, Flexible pavement, AASHTO method
220	An overview on the use of nanotechnology in the renewable energy field	Nanotechnology is extremely important for efficient use, storage and production of energy. In this context, it is one of the main objectives to contribute to cleaner, sustainable, production by reducing energy use with raw materials. Thus, it is ensured to prevent waste from various sources and to develop environmentally friendly production systems that produce less waste. Nanotechnology in the field of renewable energy sources, which is thought to be a solution to global warming that disrupts the natural balance, is one of the popular topics of today's technology. In this study, information is given about the usage areas of nanotechnology and its applications in the field of energy.	Energy, Nanotechnology, Renewable Energy
229	Obtaining activated-carbon from Zivzik (Siirt) pomegranate waste by chemical activation and model dye adsorption	In this study, activated carbon,obtained from Zivzik Pomegrate (Siirt-TURKEY), has been used as adsorbent matter. The activated-carbon has been prepared with chemical activation using ZnC12. BET surface area has been measured as 1513.05 m2/g. Methylene Blue and Crystal Violent has been used as dyestuffs. It has been investigated the effect of initial pH, initial dye concentration,initial pH and temparature on adsorption. Four different initials concentrations have been used for both dyestuffs. It has been observed that the initial pH does not affect the adsorption capacity. Compliance with four different adsorption isotherms has been investigated and it is approved that it fits the Langmuir adsorption isotherm. Three different kinetic models (the pseudo first order model, the pseudo second order model and the Elovich equation) have been investigated by doing experimental studies at three different temperatures with different initial concentrations. It is observed that our study is more suitable for the Pseudo 2nd Order Kinetic model. In addition, it has been observed that adsorption is reversible and endothermic.	Waste pomegranate, activated carbon, adsorption, biomass
232	The Generalized Odd Nakagami-G Family of Distributions: Properties and Applications	In this study, the Generalized Odd Nakagami-G distribution has been empirically investigated using Frechet distribution as the baseline distribution. Some mathematical statistics properties viz: quantile function, moments, probability-weighted moment, entropies, and order statistics were derived among others. The method of maximum likelihood estimation is suitable for the derivation of estimators of the distribution parameters. And the Generalized odd Nakagami Frechet (GONak-Fr) distribution gives the best fit vis-a-vis its competitors via application to real-life data sets.	GONak-G, GONak-Fr, Probability-weighted moment, Entropies, Order statistics
233	Correlations between SPT, PMT and MASW on Quaternary Alluvial – Fluvial Sediments In Battalgazi, Malatya, Turkey	The field tests such as the standard penetration test (SPT), pressuremeter test (PMT), and Multi-Channel Analysis of Surface Waves (MASW) give information about the stratigraphic properties, structure, underground water level, bearing capacity, and liquefaction of soil. The studies investigating the correlations between these tests are quite common. Most of the studies found in the literature have focused on sand, silty, and clay soils, while the number of the studies about gravelly soils is limited. In the study area, the gravel content ranged from 0% to 47% depending on local differences. Gravel sizes reached 80 mm at certain locations but remained below it in most locations. In this study, it has been discussed that how correlation studies will change in heterogeneous soils. Among the correlations between the field test results, with the highest R2 value of 0.6847, the strongest correlation was obtained between the PMT-PL value and SPT-N60 value, while, with a R2 value of 0.3906, the weakest correlation was between the PMT-Em value and MASW- Vs value. The low R2 values were attributed to the exceedingly heterogenous structure of the soil and locally changing gravel amounts.	Correlation, Soil tests, Alluvial-fluvial sediments
243	Calculations of yield cross-sections of 51Cr, 99Mo and 133Xe radioisotopes via neutron induced reactions	Usage of medical radioisotopes for diagnostic purposes is increasing day by day. Because of this reason, many attempts are performed for finding more efficient way for production of medical radioisotopes. One of the projectiles used for production of medical radioisotopes is neutron. In the present paper we have investigated neutron induced yield cross-sections of 51Cr, 99Mo and 133Xe radioisotopes which are commonly used in nuclear medicine as a generator for diagnostic purposes by using TALYS nuclear reaction code. For this purpose, the neutron energies for maximum yield cross-sections of 51Cr, 99Mo and 133Xe radioisotopes have been calculated and compared with the available data.	Radioisotopes, Chromium, Molybdenum, Xenon, TALYS, Cross-section, Yield
244	LOW COST ACTIVATED CARBON SYNTHESIS, CHARACTERIZATION AND ADSORPTION APPLICATIONS	In this study, activated carbon was synthesis from peach kernel shell, which is an agricultural waste. The synthesized activated carbons were characterized and their adsorption properties were examined. Activated carbons were synthesized by physical activation method and CO2 was used as the activation gas. The synthesis was carried out in two steps. In the first step, it was subjected to carbonization process at 4 different temperatures. During the carbonization process, two different gas flow were used. In the activation process, a temperature of 800 ° C was used. The surface area and morphological properties of the obtained activated carbons were studied by BET, XRD, FTIR and elemental analyzes. Methylene blue was used during adsorption. The adsorption capacities of the samples were calculated.	Biomass, Activated carbon, Adsorption, Physical Activation
245	Assessing Performance of Manually Controlled Solar Tracking System in Climate Condition of Kano, Nigeria	A solar tracking system is a mechanism used to move and position a solar photovoltaic in such a way that it is positioned and oriented perpendicular to the sun beam for maximum amount of solar irradiance and maximum power outputs. However, fixed solar panel is more preferred than tracking module because it is cost effective. In this paper, the amount of solar irradiance of the tracking module is compared with fixed solar module by experimentally in Kano, Nigeria for the three months (May, June, July, 2019). It was observed that the highest average amount solar irradiance extracted by tracking collector was 10923.67 W/m2 and average solar irradiance harnessed by stationary collector (without tracking) was 9151.33 W/m2. The average percentage change of solar irradiance with tracking was 16.22 % over solar irradiance without tracking (stationary). In conclusion, the dual-axis tracking module is extracting more amount of solar irradiance than fixed module.	Altitude angle, Azimuth angle, Solarimeter, Solar Irradiance, Solar Tracker
254	Investigation of Obesity Tendency of University Students with Bioelectric Impedance Body Analyzer	Aim: In this study, it was tried to investigate the obesity tendency of the students of Bitlis Eren University with Bioelectrical Impedance Body Analyzer. Materials and Methods: A total of 400 volunteer students, 200 girls and 200 boys, were included in the study. Findings: According to Body Mass Index (BMI) values were found that 19.5% of the girl students were weak, 68.5% of them were normal weight, 11.0% of them were overweight and 1.0% of them were obese, 4.5% of the boy students were weak, 71.0% of them were normal weight, 22.0% of them were overweight and 2.5% of them were obese. According to body fat ratio were determined that 40.0% of the girl students were in the obesity tendency risk group and 48.0% of them were obese, 56.0% of the boy students were in the obesity tendency risk group and 26.0% of them were obese. According to the waist/hip ratio were revealed that 95.5% of the girl students were in the obesity tendency group and 4.0% of them were obese, 85.5% of the boy students were in the obesity tendency group and 4.0% of them were obese. The difference between sex and fat ratio, waist/hip ratio, and BMI values and the difference between age and fat ratio, waist/hip ratio, and BMI values were found significant (p<0.05). Result: Obesity is at a high level among university students.	Obesity, Obesity tendency, Body Mass Index, Body Fat Ratio, Waist/Hip Ratio
255	The Effect of Align Parameter on Scattering Parameter for Pseudomorphic High Electron Mobility Transistor	In this paper, various physical device simulation of pseudomorphic High Electron Mobility Transistos are realized to show the effect of align parameter on scattering parameters. S parameters are complex numbers,so both real and imaginer part of scattering parameters are plotted with respect to frequency at different align parameters. In all figures, a brief explanation about the change of S parameter with respect to frequency and align parameter are provided. The effect of align parameter, which has a value of 0.4 differ from other align parameter values such as 0.45, 0.5, 0.55 and 0.6 on scattering parameters of the tranistor structure.	PHEMT, Scattering Parameters, Align Parameter, Device Simulation
256	Determination of Consumer Preferences for Goose Meat Using Conjoint Analysis	This study examines the consumer preferences for goose meat purchases of consumers who had previously purchased goose meat. The main purpose of this study is to determine which factors are more important for consumers when purchasing goose meat. Accordingly, the conjoint analysis technique, which is one of the multivariate statistical analysis methods, is used to determine the factors affecting goose meat purchases and the reasons for preferring goose meat. According to data of the Turkish Statistical Institute (TURKSTAT) for 2019, 44.07% of the goose population of Turkey (1,157,049) spread among the provinces of Kars (27.26%), Ardahan (8.68%), and Mus (8.13%). A sample of 172 people was selected by using the convenience sampling technique, one of the non-probability sampling methods, among the people who lived or have been living in these provinces and consumed goose meat. Market research and a questionnaire, which was prepared to determine consumer preferences, were conducted on this sample. According to the results of the analysis, the most significant factor determining the consumer preference for goose meat was found to be the price of goose meat per kilo (37.3%). This was followed by the region where the goose was raised (32.8%), the place where the goose meat was sold (21.6%), and the presence of the product label (8.3%) with the identification information of the product. Considering the results of the data obtained from the study, it is thought that the market share of the goose meat will increase if its recognition is increased by applying a reasonable pricing strategy, and standardizing the quality of the product.	Goose Meat, Consumer Preferences, Market Research, Conjoint Analysis
258	A Study on Chen-like Inequalities for Half Lightlike Submanifolds of a Lorentzian Manifold Endowed with Semi-Symmetric Metric Connection	In this paper, Chen-like inequalities of a half lightlike submanifolds of a real space form N(c) with constant sectional curvature c, equipped with semi-symmetric metric connection are established and some important characterization theorems for such submanifolds are proved using these inequalities.	Chen inequality, Half-lightlike submanifold, Lorentzian manifold, Semi-symmetric metric connection
264	AUTOMATIC NOZZLE CONTROL SYSTEM WITH ULTRASONIC SENSOR FOR ORCHARD SPRAYERS	Spraying fruit trees with orchard sprayers cause some limitations, as well as problems such as wasting the drugs by spraying spaces among the trees, especially in some cases where the distance among the trees are high. Accordingly, overmuch drugs are used, and harmful substances are added to the soil. Moreover, pesticide ruins that pass from the soil cause health problems. Consequently, production costs increase and correspondingly, efficiency decreases. In this experimental study, ultrasonic sensors are placed on the right and left surfaces of the machine facing the tree. The pesticides are sprayed as long as an object is detected within a certain distance with the help of these sensors. Spraying is automatically stopped when the object is not detected. The developed system consists of an electronic control unit, solenoid valves and ultrasonic sensors, controlled by a microcontroller. High rates of savings are achieved in pesticide consumption and the addition of harmful substances to the soil is prevented thanks to this automatic control system. Solid structure enables practical mounting on existing manually controlled sprayers.	orchard sprayer, spraying, automatic control, ultrasonic sensor
269	SHELF LIFE DURING STORAGE IN 4±2°C’OF FISH CRACKERS MADE WITH Oncorhynchus mykiss AND Cyprinus carpio	In this study, changes in chemical, microbiological and sensory quality of fish crackers made from rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) and carp (Cyprinus carpio) during storage at 4±2°C was investigated. The fish cracker composed of fish meat, sugar, salt, egg, sunflower oil, vinegar, butter, flour, wheat starch and stirred until a homogenous mixture of crackers dough was achieved. The mixture was crushed in an extractor and baked in the oven. Chemical quality parameters (pH, Total Volatile Basic Nitrogen and Thiobarbituric Acid), microbiological parameters (Aerobe bacteria) and sensory quality (Flavor, Odor, and Texture) were determined during the storage period. The highest chemical changes and microbiological changes was determined in the crackers prepared by adding carp meat. The lowest sensory parameters was obtained for crackers groups by carp meat. The study results showed that crackers enriched with fish meat, mainly rainbow trout had an appropriate sensory, microbiological and chemical profile for consumption.	Fish cracker, Oncorhynchus mykiss, Cyprinus carpio, shelf life
272	A NOVEL HETEROGENEOUS MODEL OF LAYERED STRUCTURES FOR NUMERICAL MODELING AND SIMULATION AT MICROWAVE FREQUENCIES VIA FDTD	Numerous destructive and nondestructive techniques using different energy sources have been offered for material characterization. Among the non-destructive testing techniques that suggest monitoring the content of different materials and concrete structures, the techniques using microwaves offer important advantages because they are not radioactive, provide good penetration, provide excellent contrast with rebar and are not affected by ambient temperature. In this paper, a non-destructive testing (NDT) technique is represented to simulate a novel heterogeneous rectangular geometric structures containing different materials such as concrete, pavement, mortar, rebar and soil based on their dielectric properties. Maxwell wave equations are used to simulate how wave propagates in structures with different dielectric properties. For numerical simulation a Finite Difference Time Domain (FDTD) is used and Absorbing Boundary Conditions (ABCs) is proposed to prevent re-entering of propagating waves into the computation domain.	FDTD, layered media, microwave, nondestructive testing, wave equation
278	Optimised Surface Condition Classification of Flexible Road Pavement Using AutoWEKA Model	AbstractThe development of pavement management tools using intelligent algorithms requires a robust form of data mining – data classification for efficient and reliable analysis. The aim of this study is to investigate and optimally classify the surface condition of flexible road pavement along 60 km length of the Zaria – Kaduna Federal Highway in Northern Nigeria for maintenance decision. The study used data mining technique for the classification of pavement surface condition into good, satisfactory, fair, poor, very poor, serious or failed. A field survey was carried out to examine the surface area and length of various surface defects such as cracks, potholes, rutting and edge failure within Chainages measuring 200 meters apart, which was used to compute the Pavement Condition Index (PCI) values and section classification in accordance with procedures stated in ASTM D6433. The AutoWEKA model of Waikato Environment for Knowledge Analysis (WEKA) software was used to optimally classify the surface condition of the highway. Results indicated that 79.67% of the 300 total instances considered by the model were correctly classified while 20.33% of the instances were incorrectly classified. The optimum surface condition classification showed that worse pavement surface conditions of the sampled site were ‘Poor’, ‘Very Poor’ and ‘Failed’ at 77 (32.22%), 51 (21.34%) and 54 (22.59%) instances respectively of the correctly classified 239 instances out of the 300 total instances sampled. Based on its present condition, 76.15% of the road segment was bad. The rehabilitation or reconstruction of the Zaria – Kaduna Federal Highway was therefore recommended for improved condition and optimum performance.	Zaria – Kaduna Highway, Data mining, Pavement Surface Condition, Optimization, WEKA Software
279	Monitoring of Burn Damage Occurrence under Different Grinding Conditions Using Acoustic Emission	This paper presents the effects of the operating conditions (i.e. cutting speed and the amount of infeed) in grinding on the occurrence of thermal damage to the workpiece. The paper commences with a brief background to the analysis methods. Firstly, the AE signals detected under different operating conditions are analysed in time and frequency domains. It has been found that an increase in cutting speed or feed rate increases the strength of AE activity which is clearly reflected by the statistical parameter. Moreover, the cutting speed rather than the feed rate is more influential on the occurrence of burn damage. When the cutting speed is increased, the workpiece has been damaged severely and the AE content around 86kHz is significantly reduced.	Grinding, acoustic emission, burn damage, cutting speed, feed rate
280	Evaluation of Electric Power Plants and Production Capacity in Turkey	In this study, Turkey's current installed capacity of power plants and plants number distribution were studied. Over time, the methods developed for energy demand and the statistical evaluation of the existing resource potential in installed power have been made. Initially, electricity was produced by thermal and hydroelectric power plants. Although production diversity has increased recently with the use of renewable energy sources, Turkey is a dependent country on foreign energy. In addition, recent studies indicate that Turkey's demand for energy will increase further. To meet the increasing demand, the construction of two nuclear power plants is ongoing. Besides, electric energy production continues with wind and solar power plants. The ratio of solar power plants in total production has increased from 0.3% to 1.4% in the last five years, and the ratio of wind power plants in total production has increased from 2.6% to 3.8%.As a result, the policies to be followed in determining the production methods in the upcoming periods are discussed and suggestions are presented.	Electric energy, Thermic Power Plants, Solar Power Plants, Wind Power Plants, Geothermal Power Plants
281	Subjective Evaluation of Towel Quality Perception According to the Experts' and Non-Experts’ Viewpoint	In this study, subjective evaluation of towel samples with distinctive fiber contents was inspected. The subjective evaluation questionnaire was performed both by experts with professional experience in the towel sector and by non-experts in this sector. The evaluation was conducted by 30 experts (18 males and 12 females) and 30 non-experts (17 males and 13 females). The experts and non-experts were asked this question: “Could you state parameters that define towel quality with the exception of color and pattern?”. Each expert and non-expert had to mention at least 3 parameters. During the evaluation phase, they could visually experienced the color of all towel samples and the information were given about the features like fiber content, yarn count, grammage etc. By touching all samples, towel quality perceptions of the parameters specified for each sample were evaluated subjectively by experts’ and non-experts’ viewpoint.	Towel, Towel Quality Perception, Subjective Evaluation, Expert, Non-expert
282	An Investigation on Recycling of Blanket Trimmings Through Needle-punched Nonwovens	Utilization of recycled fibers in nonwovens has been an attractive issue for researchers considering environmental and economic benefits. In this study blanket trimmings and mechanically recycled fibers were blended and softly needle-punched to be used as interlayers of traditional needle-punched nonwovens. The outer layers from polypropylene (at four different mass per unit areas), from recycled polyester (at four different mass per unit areas), from mechanically recycled fibers (at three mass per unit areas) and the control groups were produced by classical needle-punching at two needle-punch densities. The recycled interlayers consisting of blanket trimmings and mechanically recycled fibers and are then fixed by needle-punching again, between the two twin layers of needle-punched nonwovens of those three types of raw materials. Control groups did not include the recycled interlayers. Hence, three layered end products were obtained. Tensile characteristics of the end products were evaluated in terms inter layer ratio of the end products, raw material type of outer layers and needle-punching density through standard test methods. The results were statistically analyzed in SPSS 23.0-One way ANOVA. In the conclusion, blanket trimmings were successfully entangled to the end products as interlayers and it was observed that the strength of the nonwovens decrease with the higher recycled interlayer ratio and increase with needle-punch density.	recycling, blanket trimmings, nonwovens, needle-punching, tensile strength
283	Effects of Fabric Composition and Construction on the Performance Properties of the Worsted Fabrics	The aim of this study is to investigate the influences of composition of weft and warp yarns and structural properties of fabric such as weft density and weave type on air permeability, wicking, breaking strength, elongation at break of the worsted fabrics. For this purpose, 27 types worsted fabric samples with three different weft density, three different weave pattern and three different raw material composition were produced. The physical properties of worsted fabric samples were determined by relevant tests. The effect of fabric composition, weft density and weave pattern on performance properties of worsted fabrics were investigated and analyzed with variance analysis.	Worsted fabric, performance test, fabric composition, fabric construction, wicking, breaking strength
284	Analysis and simulation of turbulence effects on Gaussian beam propagation based on generalized modified atmospheric spectrum	Atmospheric turbulence has been extensively studied for many years in physics and engineering disciplines. When a laser beam propagates through the atmosphere, it can be affected by different optical phenomena including scattering, absorption, and turbulence. Turbulence effect of the atmosphere results from changes of the refractive index such as different size eddies that affect optical wave propagation through the atmosphere. These changes of refractive index cause different variation for the propagating laser beam such as beam wandering, beam spreading, and image jitter. All these effects can severely influence the beam quality and decrease the performance efficiency of the system in some applications including free space optical communication, LIDAR-LADAR applications, and directed energy weapons systems [1-5]. Traditionally, the turbulence is of the Kolmogorov type. The Kolmogorov spectrum is with the power law value of 11/3. There are many spectra which have specific inner and outer scale like Tatarskii, von Karman, Kolmogorov and generalized modified spectra [6,7]. In this study, the generalized modified atmospheric spectra model is applied. We numerically and analytically perform the propagation behavior of Gaussian laser beam at different propagation distance. Also, we examine the influence of some parameters on beam propagation. We form a graphical user interface using MATLAB and perform all the simulations via the gui. All results are discussed and compared with literature.	Atmospheric Turbulence, optical communications, laser beam propagation, generalized atmospheric spectrum, phase screen method
288	Bioinks for Bioprinting Tissues and Organs	The use of three-dimensional (3D) printing technology greatly impacted the applications in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Especially, recent developments in the bioprinting field hold promise for the production of viable and functional tissues and organs. 3D bioprinting process involves the use of bioinks in the layer-by-layer production of tissues and has such important roles as providing the shape and preserving the cell function and vitality. Bioinks are biomaterials, of natural or synthetic origin, and they mimic the natural extracellular matrix environment for cells to proliferate and differentiate into to form the new tissue. In this review, 3D bioprinting methods and types of bioinks are discussed in detail, with special emphasis on the milestone applications in the bioprinting field.	3D bioprinting, Bioink, Hydrogel, Tissue engineering, Regenerative medicine
289	RF MARKER SIMULATION MODEL FOR INTERVENTIONAL MRI APPLICATIONS	RF MARKER SIMULATION MODEL FOR INTERVENTIONAL MRI APPLICATIONS Compared to the other imaging modalities Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) system has many advantages. There is a great demand to carry out interventional cardiovascular procedures under MRI scanner. However, the lack of visible markers and MRI compatible interventional instruments and devices, is the main problem for realizing clinical applications with MRI guidance. In order to provide widespread usage of MRI for endovascular operations, commercial catheters and guidewires must be manufactured by considering many performance criteria including visualization, miniaturization, flexibility and safety. In this study, an orientation independent simulation model was developed and validated to obtain a reliable method for evaluating the designed RF marker structures in a MRI environment. Utilized RF coil designs have similar size and properties with former constructed clinical grade MRI compatible RF markers in experimental works [1]. Finite Element Method (FEM) simulations were carried out for different RF coil designs to make the computational analysis of their electrical and magnetic characteristics by using COMSOL Multiphysics program. By delineating an approved simulation platform of a MRI environment, various different designs of RF marker prototypes can be compared between each other in many aspects, instead of realizing these models. Proposed simulation platform enables a convenient facility to determine various parameters of micro coils that have significant effects on visibility and safety performance of the candidate designs including signal to noise ratio (SNR) and Quality (Q) factor, RF induced heating and specific absorption rate (SAR).	Interventional MRI
291	Toggling effect on pullout performance of pedicle screws: Review	Screw loosening in spine surgery is a clinical complication in patients with poor bone quality. Pedicle screws are subjected to bending moments and axial loads that may cause toggling during daily movements of spine. The purpose of this study was to assess the previous studies related to toggling effect on pullout performance of pedicle screws by surveying the whole literature and to provide some discussion for new studies about pullout performance of pedicle screws after toggling. The search was performed by combining terms of pedicle screw, toggling, screw loosening, fatigue, cyclic loading, and pullout. The retrieved articles dealing with determined terms and also their references were reviewed. Some of these articles were eliminated after review process. Toggling was determined to be crucial for the stabilization performance of pedicle screw because the loosening mechanism of screws was affected directly by cyclic loading. The toggling or cyclic loading affected the holding capacity of pedicle screws negatively, and the possibility of loosening or failure problem for pedicle screws increased with cyclic loading magnitude. Loading conditions, screw properties, test medium, level of spinal region, and cement usage were determined by many researchers as the most important parameters affecting the toggling performance as well as the pullout strength of pedicle screws. The pullout strength of pedicle screws generally decreased with cyclic loading. The parameters of cyclic loading were fairly important for pullout performance of pedicle screws. Screw properties and cement augmentation had critical effects on the stability of screws under cyclic loading, as well.	loosening, pedicle screws, pullout strength, review, toggling effect
293	Analysis of parameter changes of a neuronal network model using transfer entropy	Understanding the dynamics of coupled neurons is one of the fundamental problems in the analysis of neuronal model dynamics. The transfer entropy (TE) method is one of the primary analyses to explore the information flow between the neuronal populations. We perform the TE analysis on the two-neuron conductance-based Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) neuronal network to analyze how their connectivity changes due to conductances. We find that the information flow due to underlying synaptic connectivity changes direction by changing conductances individually and/or simultaneously as a result of TE analysis through numerical simulations.	Hodgkin-Huxley Network, Parameter Analysis, Transfer Entropy
295	Hydrological Analysis of Göksu River and Investigation of Waterway Transport Potential of Silifke	The Göksu River is one of the most important rivers of the Mediterranean region, about 260 km long, and we are exploring the possibilities of river transportation on the part between Silifke and Taşucu Port, which opens to the Mediterranean. When this region was evaluated from the point of view of river transportation, firstly river hydrology and topography were investigated and it was concluded that navigation would be unsatisfactory without being able to channel the river which was found to have negative factors in terms of large flow changes and irregular bedding transportation. However, it has been concluded that river transport can be carried out partially by increasing the bottom depths and lower stream depths, or by feeding the river water and obtaining a regular flow rate, under the name of river regulation method. It is also envisaged that the river can be channeled to make a series of flows on the river, to form a regular flow regime and to provide a fixed waterway depth.	Navigation, Waterway, River transport, Göksu River, Transportation, Flow
296	A Load Cell Design that can be utilized for The Testing of Reinforced Concrete Members	Load cells are widely used for the experiments conducted in structural mechanics. However, since it is a high technology product, supplying load cell is very costly. Therefore, the need for different types and capacities of load cells specific to each experimental study may cause the funding allocated to the research to be exceeded. In the current study, single directional load cells were produced by significantly, almost 90%, reducing the cost and these were tested in an experimental research on reinforced concrete members. The results indicated that produced load cells could take measurements with sufficient accuracy and stability.	Load cell, Strain gauge, Calibration
303	Analisis of Half Sphere receiver Model in molecular Communucation Through Diffusion	The area where the chemical signals are used as carriers in transporting information is known as the Molecular Communication (MC). The information particles which are used for communication in the molecular communication systems consist of biological components such as proteins and DNA. Recently, together with the spread of nanotechnology, the number of publications related with molecular communication also increases. Various researchers propose new methods and techniques for the science of nanotechnology to be used more efficiently in various fields such as medical and nanorobot. These methods rather address solving the inter-cellular communication problems today. In this study, in contrast with the literature, half sphere receiver model in a different topology has been analysed. This is due to the potential of different receiver models instead of micro strip or patch antenna in the digital communication systems. For this reason, different forms of the receiver have been tried and the signal transmitting ratio is tried to be increased and the intermolecular interference to be decreased.	molecular communication, nano network, receiver
304	Analyzing of the Viscosity by Using Artificial Neural Networks	The nano networks with many thousands of devices which are working cooperatively to complete challenging tasks, ultra-responsive to changes in the environment, and self-replicating devices are called nano devices (nano machine). It is thought that the studies in this field will contribute greatly to the developments in the field of nano technology. Many models have been proposed to provide nano or macro-scale systems such as molecular communication, interstitial or inter-neural communication. In these systems, information is carried by the molecules in the diffusion medium and the viscosity of the medium is an important parameter. In this study, some of the system parameters, the viscosity and distance (d) between transmitter and receiver are examined detailed by using Artificial Neural Network (ANN) algorithm in Matlab. Viscosity and d are simulated and predicted by using ANN and they also compared with results of the proposed system model.	Nano-scale systems, Viscosity, Artificial neural network
305	Submarine earthquakes in South-West Anatolia until the 18th century and their probable seismic sources	Submarine earthquakes in South West Anatolia’s offshore region are a major threat to the coastal settlements therein. Many cities on Turkish and Greek territory suffered from earthquakes through historical time. The social and economic impact of these events have been documented in several historical earthquake catalogues. This article provides an analysis for the historical earthquakes from B.C. 2000 until the 18th century for the offshore region of SW Anatolia (Muğla Province). The summary consists of 17 earthquakes with intensities ranging from VII to X. A significant gap of earthquakes exists between the 6th and the 15th century (883 years). Available damage records concentrate on Rhodos and Kos island, with little information for the surrounding coastal region. Nevertheless, the historical and present day seismicity shows that the islands and coasts in SW Anatolia have experienced several destructive earthquakes between magnitudes of Mw 6 to 8. This fact should be taken into account in seismic hazard assessments and mitigation efforts for the area.	submarine earthquake, seismic source, fault, Aegean, Mediterranean
308	An Experimental Method for Estimating Combined Friction Torque in Vane Type Pneumatic Semi Rotary Actuators	In this paper, an experimental method is proposed for estimation of friction torque in vane type pneumatic semi rotary actuators. The friction is modelled in the form of fully combined Stribeck model since this combined friction model provides good solutions for precise control applications. The study aims estimating static friction torque, Coulomb friction torque, Stribeck speed and viscous friction&damping coefficient which is included in fully combined Stribeck model for both counterclockwise and clockwise directions of the rotary actuator since these unknown parameters show differences when direction of motion is altered. For that purpose, an experimental setup is designed which includes pressure sensors for measuring the chamber pressures of actuator, analogue potentiometer for reading angular position as well as speed of vane and Arduino microcontroller card for data acquisition. A proper MATLAB Simulink block diagram is prepared for the simultaneous estimation of processed data from experimental data. Nonlinear curve fitting operation is applied and the unknown friction parameters are estimated on the fitted curve easily.	Friction torque, Stribeck model, Pneumatic Semi Rotary Actuator, Curve Fitting
316	The first occurrence of male specimen of Nemichthys scolopaceus (Richardson, 1848) from Eastern Mediterranean	A single male specimen of Nemichthys scolopaceus Richardson, 1848 was caught by a commercial deep trawler from Erdemli coast, Mersin Bay at a depth of about 595 m on 08 July 2019. After the capture, the fresh male specimen was identified, photographed, and measured. Morphometric and meristic characters of the specimen are given in the text. This paper first confirms the occurrence of a male specimen for N. scolopaceus from the Eastern Mediterranean coast of Turkey.	Nemichthyidae, Slender snipe eel, Record, Mature male, Mediterranean Sea
318	EFFECT OF DIFFERENT TIME AND TEMPERATURE ON FATTY ACID COMPOSITION OF TROUT WASTE HYDROLYZED BY ALKALI PROTEASE ENZYME	During enzymatic hydrolysis of trout (Onchorhunchus mykiss) by-products four lipid containing fractions were generated: oil, emulsion, fish protein hydrolysates and sludge. The raw material consisted of combinations of viscera, backbone and digestive tract and was hydrolysed with Alcalase enzyme at different time and temperature and determined fatty acid compositions of extracted oil from these waste. As a result of study, highest amount of fatty acids detected in the oil fractions extracted from trout waste by using alkali protease enzyme for all temperature were total mono-unsaturated fatty acids (44,05%-46,46%) followed by total polyunsaturated fatty acids (23,12%-24,41%) and total saturated fatty acids (21.94%- 23.74%). The highest total saturated fatty acids (?SFA), total polyunsaturated fatty acids (?PUFA), total n6 fatty acids (?n6) of the trout wastes hydrolyzed at 40 ?C and 50 ?C were obtained after 4 hours of hydrolysis (p <0.05). The reaction time had significant effects on the fatty acid compositions of extracted oil fraction. It can be recommended that the waste can be an important additive that can meet the fatty acid requirement of human and the cultivated species.	alcalase, hydrolysate, fatty acids, oil, trout waste
321	A Novel Chaos Application to Observe Performance of Asynchronous Machine Under Chaotic Load	In this study, a novel 4D chaos model is introduced to improve an existing chaotic system. Equations of the chaos model have been written. The dynamical analyses of the system have been executed by means of phase portraits, equilibrium points, eigenvalues, compound structure, and initial conditions. MATLAB/Simulink model has been designed to analyze load which is driven by an induction machine against chaos. Finally, the states of induction machine that is with and without chaotic load is compared.	Chaos theory, Dynamical Analysis, Sensitivity, Asynchronous Machine, Load Performance
322	Multistability and its Annihilation in the Chua’s Oscillator with Piecewise-Linear Nonlinearity	This contribution uncovers numerical evidence of hysteric dynamical behaviors for the same set of the circuit parameters of the Chua’s circuit with traditional piecewise-linear nonlinearity. Stationary pointsand the symmetry property of the model first forecast the possible evidence of coexisting attractors. Then,well known nonlinear analysis approach based on the bifurcation diagrams, two-parameter diagrams, phaseportraits, two parameter Lyapunov exponent diagrams, graph of maximum Lyapunov exponents, and attraction basins are exploited to characterize the dynamical behavior of the oscillator including coexisting orbits. Finally, the simultaneous existence of both periodic and chaotic orbits highlighted in the Chua’s oscillator is also annihilated based on linear controller. Numerical findings indicate control method ’s efficacy by combining two periodic routes and one chaotic route with another chaotic route.	Chua’s oscillator, Chaotic systems, piecewise-linear nonlinearity, Multistability control, merging crisis
324	Assessment of the experience and readiness of COVID-19 pandemic Care Nurses	"Epidemic disease pandemics have affected many societies at various times throughout human history. 21. in the century, we are still fighting epidemics as a world. Nurses play crucial roles in health care practices in the process of infectious disease pandemics and other epidemics. They face the risk of direct patient care and exposure to infectious disease. This work; It was carried out with the participation of 50(13 Male+37 Female) volunteer nurses who directly cared for COVID-19 patients or suspects. Online survey questions were asked to determine the experience and mood of the nurses in the interventions. Data obtained were analyzed by the IBM SPSS 20® program with frequency, independent T-test and Pearson chi-square (?2) tests. Participants were trained in nursing care. 60% (30) of the participants had difficulty using personal protectors, disinfectants and clothing. 78%(39) of the participants experienced insomnia, stress and anxiety. However, 2%(1) stated that they used sleeping pills, 36%(17) stated that they did meditation, muscle relaxation and breathing exercises. It was determined that 62%(31) of them were exposed to verbal /physical aggression by their patients/relatives during this difficult period. In this process, a significant difference was found between being excluded from service and age, exposure to physical violence and years of working in the profession, understanding of the difficulties of the profession and gender (P <0.05). Consequently; The pandemic felt both an intense workload and a heavy burden of responsibility on the nurses. Changes in work habits brought along both psychological and physical stress. The fact that the process took longer than expected revealed burnout in their own words. Despite all this, nurses overcome these difficulties with their experiences."	COVID-19, Epidemics, Pandemic, Care Nursing, Nursing
325	Effect of Alkaloids on SARS-CoV-2	"The use of herbs in treatment has started with the history of humanity and a significant number of effective drugs are being developed from herbal sources. Primary and secondary metabolites, which are natural products produced by plants, are the most basic products of the industry directly or indirectly. One of these groups is alkaloids. Alkaloids show antiviral effects in viral diseases. COVID-19, which started in China and spread to many countries, has become an epidemic that threatens all humanity worldwide as ""Coronavirus Pandemic"". No reliable and certified drug has yet been developed for this virus. Recent important research shows that plant-based substances can be potential candidates for developing effective and safe drugs against this virus. Referring to such recent studies, this study primarily shows that the antiviral potentials of some alkaloids especially quinine and artemisinin and its derivatives. In addition, the importance of antiviral plant substances in the development of a broad-spectrum drug for SARS-CoV-2 is emphasized."	SARS-CoV-2, COVID-19, Alkaloid, Quinine, Artemisinin
326	A STUDY ON FOODS THAT BOOST THE IMMUNE SYSTEM DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC	The coronavirus (COVID-19) has spread rapidly across the world and been declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. One of the ways to combat COVID-19 and other infectious diseases is to boost the immune system. It is, therefore, of utmost importance to eat well and consume foods that boost the immune system. This study investigated the effect of Nigella sativa (black seed) oil, silverberry, date, grape, Asphodelus aestivus, Rheum ribes, and carob on the immune system. There is no cure yet for Covid-19. However, scientists and healthcare professionals recommend that people eat foods that are rich in vitamins and minerals to bolster their immune system to fight COVID-19 because immunodeficiency is the Achilles' heel of Covid-19 pandemic	Immune system, foods, metabolism, Covid-19, Thymoquinone.
327	A Research on Academician Opinions on Distance Education in the COVID-19 Process	With the Covid-19 pandemic process, educational activities all over the world faced a great challenge. This epidemic, which has a very high risk of transmission, prevented students from taking lessons in the classroom, created social distances and made distance education compulsory. While distance education offers a solution to prevent interruption of educational activities during the pandemic process, on the other hand, it requires teachers and students to adapt to new learning roles through information technologies in order to be successful. However, the adequacy or success of the distance education process is also discussed. The views of the educator (academician) using distance education on this subject are very important. This research is important in terms of reflecting the views of academics. Within the scope of the research, the views of academicians at a state university in the Eastern Anatolia Region on distance education were examined. An online questionnaire was sent to all academicians at this university and evaluations were made over 93 academics who returned to the questionnaires. As a result of the data obtained, it was seen that the academicians had both positive and negative opinions about distance education. In particular, female academics' opinions on distance education are more positive. However, factors such as age, experience, and title did not have an effect on views on distance education. Again, most of the academicians do not find distance education alone sufficient, but think that it will be much more effective when reinforced with formal education.	Covid-19, Pandemic, Online Learning, Distance Education, Educational Opinions
328	OPINIONS OF STUDENTS ABOUT DISTANCE EDUCATION IN THE PANDEMI PROCESS	"Distance education has become an imperative in the process of the pandemic in Turkey. Private or public institutions that provide education and training at all levels continued their activities through distance education. This study was carried out to determine student views on distance education. The working group consists of 508 students studying in different faculties and vocational schools of Malatya Turgut Ozal University. The data were collected by a ""Student Views on Distance Education"" questionnaire prepared by the researcher."	distance learning, student opinion, online learning, pandemic process
330	Evaluating of spatial hydraulic head distribution using Empirical Bayesian Kriging and ANFIS methods in Dogger Karst Aquifer	In this study, Adaptive Neuro Fuzzy based Inference System (ANFIS) and Empirical Bayesian Kriging (EBK) are evaluated for assessing hydraulic head distribution in a karst aquifer. ANFIS uses three reduced centered preprocessed inputs, which are cartesian coordinates (XY) and the elevation (Z). All models are applied on the same case study: Dogger aquifer, which covers an area of 445 km2 in the south east of Poitiers, France. Models are tested on 100 random data subset of 20 data among 113, the remaining is used to train and validate the models. ANFISXYZ and EBK are then used to interpolate the hydraulic head on a 100 m square - grid covering the study area. Both EBK and ANFIS interpolations exhibit realistic patterns, with the average values of RMSE = 5.2 m and R2 = 0.80. Combining these approaches can be an advanced option for interpolating hydraulic head in a more accurate way.	ANFIS, Empirical Bayesian Kriging
331	"Corporate Social Responsibility; An Analysis of Ports’ Websites"	The goal of this study is to improve the knowledge of CSR practices in port sector by investigating corporate websites. Since corporate websites have become an effective area to diffuse information about firms’ mission, vision and strategies, it is believed that companies who are active in CSR issues will communicate through internet and thus which themes are prevelent in port sector would be identified. The sample that was selected for the study consists of the corporate web sites of all top companies that were part of the selective index of the 2017 TURKLIM report. Content analysis methodology was applied to identify which particular themes are representative across ports of Turkey. The authors intend to determine what themes regarding to CSR are presented on the corporate web sites of ports and also how and where this information is presented.	Corporate Social Responsibility, Port, Content analysis, Web-site
332	EVALUATION OF PORT STATE CONTROL (PSC) PERFORMANCE OF TURKISH FLAGGED MERCHANT SHIPS IN PARIS MOU	"As stated by the International Maritime Organization (IMO), the primary responsibility for ships' standards rests with the Flag State but Port State Control (PSC) provides a ""safety net"" to catch identify sub-standard ships. Many studies in the literature show that the PSC is a very important tool not only to improve the safety of ships and their performance but also to enhance the maritime safety and marine environmental protection. To date, there have been nine regional agreements established on PSC and the most important one of those is the Paris MoU. In this study, it is aimed to carry out an evaluation of the PSC performance of the Turkish flagged merchant ships in the Paris MoU. With this aim, the “Excess Factor (EF)” has been used as a primarily indicator for carrying out an overview of PSC performance of the Turkish flagged merchant ships in Paris MoU. Additionally, “Detention Rate” has been also used as a secondarily indicator in order to compare the detention rates of the Turkish flagged ships with the average detention rates (inc. all ships inspected) in the Paris MoU. As a result of the study, it has been observed that the Turkish flagged ships have a good PSC performance in the Paris MoU from the view of both indicators and it can be further improved with future targets."	Port State Control, Turkish Flagged Merchant Ships, Paris MoU, Maritime Safety, Maritime Bussiness Management
334	Maximum size of Dentex dentex (Sparidae) in the Aegean Sea	A huge specimen of Dentex dentex (870 mm TL) was caught on 10 December 2019 by an angler from the Bay of Sığacık, İzmir, at a depth of 148 m. The specimen has the maximum size throughout the Aegean Sea.	Size, measurement, handline
337	Identification of Structural and Operational Characteristics of Deep Water Cast Nets Used for Whiting along the Turkish Coast of the Black Sea	"In this study, it was aimed to define the structural and operational characteristics of traditional deep water cast nets used for whiting fishing off the Turkish coast in the Black Sea. The studies were carried out in two stages; 1) field operations and 2) face to face interviews with fishermen who are using deep water cast nets to catch whiting. Deep water cast nets are widely used for whiting fishing in small scale fisheries in the Black Sea. Deep water cast nets are released from the boat into the sea and sunk down to bottom with spread out like a parachute. Deep water cast nets are structured as follows; netting, sinker line, sinker, brail lines, horn, swivel and pulling cord. The operation of a cast net requires considerably high knowledge and skills of the fishermen. So, every stage of fishing operation is important in terms of catch efficiency and operational success. The main factors of successful operations are the type of bottom, depth, state of the sea, wind and deep currents. The operation stages are examined as follows; pre-operation, getting rid of curling and hurling, state of the first contact with water surface and downward move into the water column, reaching to the bottom and capture of the fish, hauling, opening procedure on the vessel, taking the fish and as final preparation of the for the next operation."	Deep water cast nets, Black Sea, Merlangius merlangus euxinus, Demersal
341	Estimation of the Amount of Drug to be Applied to the Patient Using Elman Recurrent Artificial Neural Network	"In this study, Elman recurrent neural network has been used in order to determine the depth of anesthesia in the continuation stage of anesthesia and to estimate the amount of medicine to be applied at that moment. The applied artificial network is composed of three layers, namely the input layer, the hidden layer and the output layer. Fast back-propagation learning algorithm (Traingdx) has been used in the training of the network, and nonlinear activation function sigmoid (sigmoid function) has been used in the outputs of the hidden layer and the output layer. The values of the power spectral density values of 10-second EEG(elektroensefalografi) segments which correspond to 1-50 Hz frequency range; the ratio of the total power of PSD(power spectral density) values of the EEG segment in that moment in the same range to the total of PSD values of EEG segment taken prior to the anesthesia; similarly, the ratio of the total of PSD values of EEG data to the total of PSD values of the previous EEG data; and the amount of anesthetic medicine have been entered into the inputs of artificial neural network."	Depth of anesthesia, Neuro Control, EEG power spectrum, Elman recurrent neural networks
342	Diffuse Optic Tomography (DOT) Techniques for Biomedical Imaging	Diffuse optic tomography (DOT) techniques are part of the classification of molecular biomedical optic imaging modality. DOT has the device instrumentation and mathematical image reconstruction parties. In device instrumentation part, electronic, optic and mechanic combinations are prepared for laser data acquisition processes. Basically, DOT devices have light source and photo detector units. Depend on the source and detector placement on imaging tissue surface, device geometry may be transmission through, back-reflected, cylindirical ring or spherical. Laser sources are illumination devices. Laser photons with specific wavelength are sent through tissue from tissue surface. Depend on the molecules’ biochemical structure, laser wavelength can be selected application specific. Molecules have different absorption coefficients depend on the laser wavelength. Detector units can be semiconductor PIN photodiodes, CCD or CMOS imagers. Different approaches can be used for geometrical DOT source-detector placements such that transmission through, back-reflected, cylindirical ring or spherical models. For instance, multi-sources and detectors might be placed like chessboard shape for back-reflected tissue imaging geometry. DOT imaging modality is also divided into three major branches depend on the run mode principle. Continuous Wave (CW), Frequency Domain (FD), and Time Resolved (TR) techniques are using different laser sources. CW technique is using steady state laser source. FD technique is using wide frequency range. TR technique is using picosecond (ps) or femtosecond (fs) pulsed laser source. All of these techniques are trying to investigate tissue molecule concentrations and spatial distributions by using acquired data in image reconstruction algorithm. Generalized image reconstruction algorithms are using mathematical inverse problem solution methods which might be back-projection method as an example of algebraic reconstruction technique (ART), regularization methods as an example of Tikhonov-Morozov discrepancy method, or sub-space methods such as conjugated gradient (CG) methods.	Biomedical optic imaging, diffuse optic tomography (DOT) technique, transmission through, back-reflected, cylindirical ring, continuous wave (CW), frequency domain (FD), time resolved (TR)
343	The Philosophy of Laser Imaging	The philosophy of laser imaging first thought by the idea of visualizing the photon trajectories which are even seen by naked eyes when anybody looks inside to the photon diffusing object. If white light beams onto the imaging tissue, blood vessels can be seen by the naked eye from the tissue surface, roughly. One of the important biomedical molecular macroscopic imaging technique is the laser imaging. Most of the works cover research infrastructures, laboratories, and hospitals for diffuse optic laser imaging. Naturally, in most of the clinical applications, near infrared (NIR) laser is being used, since the main motivation trial is the cancer case, obviously. NIR laser helps to figure out hemoglobin content which uses the blood absorption maxima wavelength, hence in most of diffuse optic tomography (DOT) research, NIR laser is used. Most of the diffuse optic laser imaging technique are using low energy incident collimated isotropic un-polarized gaussian beam which is generated by semiconductor laser diode. Applied power is usually less than 10 mW/cm2. At the beginning of the laser diffuse optic imaging (DOI) research era, most of the researchers have jumped into the research without reading and understanding the limitations of the modality. Low energy light has some restrictions, the most important is the scattering nature of the light depend on the tissue type. However, some tissue types such as cerebrospinal fluid has low optic scattering coefficients. Another important factor besides the scattering, caused by low energy, hence photons are penetrating only superficially. Photons are scattering much and penetrating only superficially. On the other hand, if x-ray bremsstrahlung photons were used, it would go deeper tissue layers, nevertheless it becomes ionized radiative light. The philosophy of laser diffuse macroscopic molecular imaging modality is covering scattering of light, therefore device concept should be thought according to this phenomenon, source and detector placement should be arranged based on this truth. In this review paper, the philosophical concept will be evaluated for laser imaging.	Biomedical Imaging, Diffuse optic tomography (DOT) technique, transmission through, back-reflected, cylindrical ring, Continuous Wave (CW), Frequency Domain (FD), Time Resolved (TR)
344	Consumer Attitudes and Preferences about Upholstered Furniture	This study focuses on learning the knowledge, opinions, and preferences of consumers about upholstered furniture. This study further aims to discover how the preferences arising from the knowledge and thoughts of the consumers are reflected in the home-type upholstered furniture purchase process. A survey was designed and implemented for this study. Survey data were analyzed using descriptive statistics and independent samples t-test. Results of the study indicate the following: consumers from Kayseri plan to use their upholstered furniture for 6 to 10 years, do not replace their furniture before it is worn out, and when considering replacement, they give importance to aesthetic features, ease of use, and moderate prices. It was also found that, when purchasing furniture, consumers pay attention to the quality of the fabric, the cleanable and washable qualities, and timeless design.	Upholstered Furniture, Consumer, Preference, Attitude
345	Performance Analyses of the Industrial Cooling System with Microchannel Condenser: An Experimental Study	"Increasing the efficiency in equipment used in energy systems has a growing interest in the matter of energy efficiency and environmental effects. Microchannel heat exchangers, which will increase the efficiency of heat exchangers in cooling systems and reduce the amount of refrigerant charge, are of great importance. In this study, the theoretical and experimental results of classical and microchannel condensers used in a basic vapor compression cooling system were represented using R449a refrigerant. Two separate industrial systems with classical and microchannel condensers were designed, manufactured and tested under the same conditions. According to the test results performed for 24 hours, the average coefficient of performance, exergy efficiency and CO2 emission values of the system with classical condenser and microchannel condenser were calculated as 2.086, 2.351; 23.950%, 25.564% and 16.357, 14.438 kg/hour, respectively. As a result, it has been seen that microchannel heat exchanger usage provides an advantage in terms of total energy consumption and total CO2 emissions compared to the classical system at the rate of approximately 11% and using microchannel heat exchanger in industrial cooling systems has been recommended."	cooling, coefficient of performance, exergy, microchannel heat exchanger, CO2 emission
347	COMPARISON OF DYNAMIC PERFORMANCES OF STATCOM, SSSC, IPFC AND UPFC ON INTER-AREA OSCILLATION DAMPING	Maintaining the stability of the power systems and ensuring the sustainability with sufficient reliability are two important challenges. Inter-area oscillations are one form of low frequency oscillations generally range between 0.1-0.8 Hz. These oscillations may occur between one group of generators in one area and another group of generators in another area that are separated by a long distance. Even a small change in the operating point in the interconnected system may trigger this phenomenon. Therefore, once detected, it is necessary to damp out these oscillations efficiently which may lead to total blackout the system in the worst case. Since Flexible Alternating Current Transmission Systems (FACTS) devices can control multi-power system parameters simultaneously and independently, FACTS devices have a high application potential and can be considered as one of the most viable solutions to damp out inter-area oscillations in an effective manner. This paper aims to show that major types of voltage source converter based FACTS devices are able to damp out inter-area oscillations successfully. The studied FACTS devices in this paper are Static Synchronous Compensator, Static Synchronous Series Compensator, Interline Power Flow Controller, and Unified Power Flow Controller. Furthermore, the dynamic performances of these FACTS devices are also compared based on the simulated case studies on Kundur 2-Area System. Of these FACTS devices, it is shown that UPFC is the most effective FACTS solution to mitigate inter-area oscillations.	Static Synchronous Compensator, Static Synchronous Series Compensator, Interline Power Flow Controller, Unified Power Flow Controller, Inter-Area Oscillation
348	AERODYNAMIC OPTIMIZATION OF NACA 0012 AIRFOIL	Airfoils are used to produce lift force to carrying the weight of the aircrafts. Aerodynamic forces are directly related to airfoil shape. The force parallel to the direction of relative motion is defined as drag, and the force perpendicular to the direction of movement is defined as lift. Hence, airfoil shape is directly affecting the aerodynamic performance of the wings. In this study, aerodynamic optimization of an airfoil is performed using computational fluid dynamic (CFD) analysis to increase the aerodynamic performance of the wings. Commonly used NACA 0012 Airfoil is optimized at different angle of attack values using a commercial CFD program ANSYS.	CFD, Optimization, Aerodynamic
349	AERODYNAMIC ANALYSES OF NACA 63-215	In this study, aerodynamic performance of NACA 63-215 airfoil was investigated. Aerodynamic performance of the airfoils is changed with respect to angle of attack (AoA) values. The AoA increases, the separation of the boundary layers on the upper and lower surface of the wing increases. This situation is effect on the aerodynamic performance. So aerodynamic parameters (lift coeff. and drag coeff.) at different AoA values were investigated. Also, flow separation was investigated at different AoA values.	Airfoil, Aerodynamic, CFD
350	EFFECT OF ALKALINE CONCENTRATION ON THE HYDROGEN GENERATION	Al water reaction is one of the preferred hydrogen production methods. However, the passive oxide film which forms on the surface of Al particles that prevents or delays the reaction during this reaction is a problem. In this study, in order to overcome this problem ball milling was applied and NaOH solutions with different concentrations were used in the reactions. Al powders were ball milled with NaCl and 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2 M NaOH solutions were used in the experiments. Effect of alkaline concentration was investigated on the hydrogen generation experiments. The results showed that, higher temperatures and increased concentrations of NaOH solutions improves the hydrogen generation rate.	Hydrogen generation, Al powder, Al water reaction, ball milling, NaOH concentration
351	FUZZY MODELLING AND OPTIMIZATION OF ANAEROBIC CO-DIGESTION PROCESS PARAMETERS FOR EFFECTIVE BIOGAS YIELD FROM BIO-WASTES	In this study, Adaptive Neuro Fuzzy Inference System (ANFIS) was employed in the modelling and optimization of anaerobic process parameters from co-digestion of bio-waste (food waste and Pig slurry) with different masses at constant water content. In six different experimental scenarios, mixture ratios of the bio-waste and water were 0.5:1, 1:1, 2:1, 2.5:1, 3:1 and 3.5:1. The range of parameters measured from the experimental process were used as input variables in the ANFIS model. Five experimentally measured parameters that led to maximum biogas yield as well as ANFIS input parameters and their corresponding output results in terms of maximum biogas yield were selected for validation. Optimum bio-digester temperature of 38oC, pH of 7.1, Hydraulic Retention Time (HRT) of 11 and mixture ratio of 2:1 in the experiment process produced overall maximum biogas yield of 247g while optimum input parameters such as bio-digester temperature of 40oC, pH of 7.1, HRT of 11 and mixture ratio of 2:1 in the ANFIS model produced overall maximum biogas yield of 248g. There was proximity between the experimental and predicted results, indicating that ANFIS model can be used as alternative tool for optimizing anaerobic process parameters from multiple feedstocks for desired biogas yield.	Biogas yield, Bio-wastes, Mixture ratio, Water content, Modelling and optimization
352	DESIGN AND MODELLING OF INTERNAL PERMANENT MAGNET MOTOR	In this study, radial brushless motors with internal permanent magnet (IPM) is designed and modelled. These motor types can be fed by alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC) sources. It is called permanent magnet synchronous motor when it is fed with a AC voltage, and brushless direct current motors when it is fed it with a DC voltage. Later on, design parameters of an electric motor that produces a torque of approximately 35 Nm, powered by a 72 V DC source is determined. Then, mathematical modeling is implemented based on the determined design parameters of permanent magnet electric motors. IPM motor’s size, magnetic and thermal analyses are made by finite element analysis. Moreover, efficiency, torque and power of the designed IPM motor are calculated as the result of the analysis. Finally, it is revealed that the designed IPM motor has 24 slots and 8 poles which has an efficiency of 92 %.	Electric motors, Internal permanent magnet motors, Finite element analysis
353	INVESTIGATION OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM DISSOLVED AIR FLOTATION PROCESS	Industrial wastewater treatment facilities have been regarded as one of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission sources. Dissolved air flotation (DAF) process which is carried out to remove fats, oil and grease and carbonaceous materials in a dairy wastewater treatment plant is considered as one of the major GHG generator sources. This paper investigated the GHG emissions of a DAF unit operated in an industrial wastewater treatment facility. The direct emission was estimated from FOG and organic materials removal from wastewater. A new estimation tool was developed, in this study. The indirect emission was figured out from electricity and chemical depletion for DAF process. This study aimed to estimate the greenhouse gas emissions from a dissolved air flotation tank using a new developed model based on IPCC approach. The results showed that electricity depletion was the main resource of the GHG emissions in DAF unit with the value of 3752.35 kg CO2e/d. For the reduction of greenhouse gas emission, electricity consumption should be taken under control.	greenhouse gas, wastewater treatment plant, dissolved air flotation, direct emission, indirect emission.
354	RESERVOIR-TARGETED OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION IN THE KARABURUN PENINSULA (WESTERN TURKEY)	In recent studies, it has been determined to exist mature petroleum hydrocarbons in the Karakaya complex units which broadly spread over Northern Turkey and some of the Upper Paleozoic and Triassic sediments in the Karaburun Peninsula have shown similarity with the sandstones of the Karakaya complex. Besides, there are mercury deposits that were operated in the Karaburun Peninsula in the past and it was indicated in the preliminary studies that the surface and subsurface waters in the regions where mercury deposits are located contain high concentrations of mercury. It was also stated in the literature that formation waters of natural gas fields contain high concentrations of mercury as well. For these reasons, in this study, it is aimed to investigate the oil and gas potential of the Karaburun Peninsula by conducting Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons (TPH) analysis on the samples taken from the water resources. As a result of the analyses conducted, the hydrocarbons have been detected in all the water samples. The organic geochemical methods have been used to determine the source of hydrocarbons detected in the water resources. The detected n-alkane hydrocarbons are the mature petroleum hydrocarbons and the presence of these hydrocarbons is evidence for the existence of a working petroleum system in the study area. The main structure in the maximum depth of 220 m determined in the study area has a very high potential to become an oil and/or gas reservoir according to gravity and magnetic data and because of the presence of waters containing mature petroleum hydrocarbons.	reservoir-targeted oil and gas exploration, TPH in water analysis, hydrocarbon-rich water, mercury deposit, mercury mineralization
355	Power transformer demand forecast with Box Jenkins ARIMA model	Demand forecasting is based on the principle of trying to forecast the demand for the outputs of enterprises in the field of manufacturing or service for the next periods. It requires the estimation of various future scenarios, if necessary, taking measures and taking steps, and during the application phase, the technique that is most suitable for the characteristics of the examined data set is selected and used. As a result of a healthy analysis carried out in this way, detailed plans and strict measures can be taken for the unknown, negative scenarios of the future.This study analyzes the characteristics of a series of power transformers of a company operating in the electromechanical industry in the past years, and as a result of this analysis, the Box Jenkins Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average method (ARIMA), which best fits the results, is expected to occur for power transformers in the future. It was made to estimate the amount of demand.Within the scope of this study, firstly, the most suitable model was tried to be determined by taking into consideration the past 132 months data of PTS. It was decided that the best choice among the alternative models was the ARMA (4,4) x (0,1) 12 model. The model was found to be stable and it was decided that the root mean square error (RMSE), mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) and Theil inequality coefficient values determined in the performance measurements were appropriate.	ARIMA, Box Jenkins, Transformer demand forecast
356	Analysis of pollution load originating from cattle, small ruminant and poultry: A comparative case study for Isparta, Turkey	The animal wastes and bacteria in the fertilizer reach the water sources as a result of washing with precipitation and floods and cause deterioration of microbial quality. If the necessary precautions are not taken, it will be inevitable for wastes in livestock enterprises to pollute groundwater and resources as a potential pollutant. In this study, animal pollution load caused by spreading pollutant sources of Isparta center and its districts in Burdur basin was determined.In the pollution load calculation, 2019 animal numbers data were used according to three different animal species and the annual total nitrogen (TN) and total phosphorus (TP) loads were calculated. As a result of the calculation, the total TN load is 272.22 tons / year, total TP load was calculated as 8.45 tons / year. In addition, the district with the most widespread pollution load was determined and comparisons were made among the districts.	Animal pollution load, Diffuse pollutants, Total nitrogen, Total phosphorus
357	ACCURACY ASSESSMENTS OF GÖKTÜRK-1 SATELLITE IMAGERY	"Optical satellite imagery has an important place today in terms of responding to the increasing need for geospatial base in many different fields and disciplines, especially because of their availability and temporal resolution. Because all kinds of geospatial information and data production processes such as orthoimages, maps, vector data and etc. in especially for large project areas provide the opportunity to reduce the cost and time required in the field work, so the interest in high resolution satellite imagery. Göktürk-1, an electro-optical satellite that was launched on December 5, 2016 and acquiring 0.50 m spatial resolution imagery, aims to meet the high resolution image requirements of Turkey. In this study, the horizontal and vertical accuracy of the Digital Surface Model and orthoimages produced by different methods from stereo images obtained from Göktürk-1 satellite in two different regions were investigated. As a result, although the pointing accuracy and the Digital Surface Model accuracy produced from Göktürk-1 satellite imagery, will vary according to the incidence angle of Göktürk-1 satellite, the Digital Terrain Model used in the production of the orthoimage, the selected method for orientation of satellite imagery; a planimetric accuracy of better than ± 2 m RMSE in orthoimage and a height accuracy of better than ± 3 m RMSE is accomplished."	Göktürk-1, Satellite Imagery, Orthoimage, Orthorectification, Digital Surface Model, Geometric Accuracy
358	FEATURE EXTRACTION FROM SATELLITE IMAGES USING SEGNET AND FULLY CONVOLUTIONAL NETWORKS (FCN)	"Object detection and classification are among the most popular topics in Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing studies. With technological developments, a large number of high-resolution satellite images have been obtained and it has become possible to distinguish many different objects. Despite all these developments, the need for human intervention in object detection and classification is seen as one of the major problems. Machine learning has been used as a priority option to this day to reduce this need. Although success has been achieved with this method, human intervention is still needed. Deep learning provides a great convenience by eliminating this problem. Deep learning methods carry out the learning process on raw data unlike traditional machine learning methods. Although deep learning has a long history, the main reasons for its increased popularity in recent years are; the availability of sufficient data for the training process and the availability of hardware to process the data. In this study, a performance comparison was made between two different convolutional neural network architectures (SegNet and Fully Convolutional Networks (FCN)) which are used for object segmentation and classification on images. These two different models were trained using the same training dataset and their performances have been evaluated using the same test dataset. The results show that, for building segmentation, there is not much significant difference between these two architectures in terms of accuracy, but FCN architecture is more successful than SegNet by 1%. However, this situation may vary according to the dataset used during the training of the system."	Photogrammetry, Deep Learning, Feature Extraction, SegNet, Fully Convolutional Networks
359	ANECHOIC CHAMBER MEASUREMENTS FOR CIRCULAR ISAR IMAGING AT MERSIN UNIVERSITY’S MEATRC LAB	Inverse synthetic aperture radar (ISAR) imaging is a reliable detection and classification technique for maneuvering targets at near and far-field ranges. In this study, we examine the near-field circular (turntable) ISAR imaging by conducting various real measurement experiments that were performed in the microwave anechoic chamber of the Mersin University’s MEATRC laboratory. The backscattered data were collected via a vector network analyzer that works as a Stepped Frequency Continuous Wave (SFCW) radar and for a number of simple and complex metal objects. The collected raw data were calibrated by using the backscattering data of a canonical object and then focused by applying a near-field backprojection image reconstruction algorithm. The resultant circular ISAR images demonstrate successful and well localized detection of various types of targets even though they are camouflaged by clothing. The obtained results reveal the preliminary efficacy of C band ISAR imaging in concealed object detection problem encountered at security checkpoints such as airports.	ISAR imaging, Near-field ISAR, Anechoic chamber, Concealed object detection
360	OPPURTUNITIES PROVIDED BY REMOTE SENSING DATA FOR WATERSHED MANAGEMENT: EXAMPLE OF KONYA CLOSED BASIN	"Remote sensing data provides great opportunities in various steps of watershed management like characterization of watersheds that bear dynamic structure with large land, monitoring the physical variations within the basin, and conducting various scenario analyses to detect the response of the basin. The high resolution capacity of today’s satellite images enables the production of land use/cover data of a basin in shorter period of time. In this study, it is aimed to demonstrate various aspects of remote sensing technology to be used in watershed management studies. For that purpose, MODIS, Landsat and Sentinel satellite data with different spatial resolutions were used to monitor the surface water bodies in Konya Closed Basin (KCB) of Turkey. In addition, high spatial Worldview-3 satellite data were used to extract detailed information about Akgol Wetland located in KCB. A methodology was developed on the utilization of remote sensing technology consisting of 3 main groups; field surveys, satellite images and ancillary data. In the study, 5 different spectral indices were applied to Sentinel 2 data to determine the areas of surface water bodies. Moreover, Support Vector Machine (SVM) method was applied to Worldview-3 satellite image to classify Akgol Wetland and its vicinity. The importance of establishing watershed information system together with a database reflecting the characteristics of watersheds was underlined. Various examples were given from KCB that is known as the largest closed basin of the country with a surface area of 5.426.480 ha. The basin owns 17 water bodies out of which 2 of them are RAMSAR sites. Within the scope of the study, information obtained from optical and synthetic aperture radar (SAR) satellite images in the basin were discussed. More accurate results were achieved by Sentinel 2 than MODIS and Landsat data. In addition, detailed information about the wetland were extracted by means of Worldview-3 data and water bodies were monitored in all weather conditions via Sentinel 1 SAR data."	Konya Closed Basin, MODIS, Sentinel, Landsat, Worldview-3
361	SPACE-BORNE AIR POLLUTION OBSERVATION FROM SENTINEL-5P TROPOMI: RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN POLLUTANTS, GEOGRAPHICAL AND DEMOGRAPHIC DATA	"This study presents an analysis of the mean atmospheric column nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and carbon monoxide (CO) over the Republic of North Macedonia during a six-month period. Measurements of NO2 and CO obtained from the recently launched Sentinel-5 Precursor spacecraft with TROPOspheric Monitoring Instrument (Sentinel-5P TROPOMI) have been used. The aim of this study was to use relatively high-resolution satellite data for local air quality/air pollution monitoring and to investigate the relation of the pollutants with geographical and demographical data of the study area. For that purpose, along with CO and NO2 data from TROPOMI, population statistics, digital elevation model and vegetation cover have been used for geo-spatial and statistical analyses. The findings show significantly high CO and NO2 values in several parts of the study area, especially high CO values in the Vardar and Polog Valleys, and high NO2 values in the densely populated cities. According to the analyses, there is high positive correlation between the NO2 and the population statistics (r = 0.78; R2 = 0.61) and high negative correlation (r = -0.9; R2 = 0.80) between the altitude and the CO values of the study area. The overall results of this study confirmed the capability of Sentinel-5P TROPOMI data to be used in monitoring the air quality and air pollution over local areas."	Remote Sensing, Air pollution, Air quality, Population, Digital Terrain Model, Sentinel-5 TROPOMI
362	Determination of Coverage Oscillation for Inclined Communication Satellite	The communication engineers need to evaluate footprint movement to deploy a ground station. Geostationary communication satellite’s inclination angle causes the movement of a satellite footprint. The calculation of the inclination angle requires complex astronomical knowledge and mathematical calculations. On the other hand, a satellite communication engineer does not need a very accurate inclination angle value to design a ground station for required service availability. We propose a practical method called trigonometric curve fitting for the inclination to solve the problem. The past and the future value of inclination can be evaluated by using the curve-fitting method. It is a simplified practical method and does not need advanced orbital dynamics knowledge. The orbit geometry and evaluated inclination angle are used for estimation of a coverage area movement. A satellite communication engineer can evaluate coverage area oscillation quickly and design a better link for an inclined orbit satellite by using the proposed method. We have evaluated the inclination angle of the communication satellite Sat-1 with the proposed method. Sat-1 spot beam movements and wide beam coverage area movements are estimated to obtain EIRP and G/T fluctuation for link budget purposes. The proposed method provides the results that are consistent with the results of measurements and the results of satellite operators’ professional tools.	coverage oscillation, geo satellite, communication, inclination, curve fitting
363	RADAR CROSS SECTION ANALYSIS OF UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES USING PREDICS	In this study, a quantitative radar cross section (RCS) analysis of different unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) models were accomplished by means of a series of RCS simulations. The simulations were carried out by high-frequency RCS simulation and analysis tool called PREDICS. To quantify the RCS features of the UAV model, both the anglevariation and frequency-variation simulations for all polarization excitations were performed. The results of the simulations suggested that RCS values were dramatically varying with respect to look angle with some special angles providing the large values of RCS. Generally, the RCS values of the UAV model was increasing with frequency as expected. A quantitative radar detection range analyses were also accomplished to assess the visibility of both the military-type and civil-type UAV models. The outcome of these studies has suggested that large-size UAV model can be easily detected by a high-sensitive radar on the ranges of tens of kilometers while these numbers reduce to a few kilometers for a civilian UAV model that is much smaller than the its military counterpart.	Radar Cross Section, Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, Radar Visibility, RCS simulation
366	Crank-Nicholson Scheme of the Zeroth-Order Approximate Deconvolution Model of Turbulence Based On a Mixed Formulation	"This report presents a method with high spatial and temporal accuracy for estimating solutions of Navier-Stokes equations at high Reynolds number. It employs Crank-Nicolson time discretization along with the zeroth-order ap-proximate deconvolution model of turbulence to regularize the flow prob-lem; solves a deviation of the Navier Stokes equation instead. Both theoreti-cal and computational findings of this report illustrate that the model pro-duces a high order of accuracy and stability. Furthermore, measurements of the drag and lift coefficients of a benchmark problem verify the potential of the model in this kind of computations."	Approximate Deconvolution, Crank-Nicholson, Stability, Accuracy, Turbulence Models, Space Filter
492	Parameter Optimization of a Bi-copter Type Unmanned Aerial Vehicle to Avoid Propeller-induced Vibrations During Hovering	The vibration parameters of a bi-copter-type unmanned aerial vehicle is optimized by considering operational vibration with payloads. The double electric ducted fan loads, which transmit excitations to the fuselage, are predicted and compared using optimization methods. While the minimum vibration amplitude for stress will be achieved at 7.69 Hz, it will be 9.80 Hz. for minimum deformation without sacrificing safety factor requirement. It ensures sensitive vertical acceleration. It is not seen significant differences on results from screening and genetic algorithm methods. Correlations between frequencies and structural responses are determined. It is observed that the stress and deformation amplitudes of the structure decreases at increasing frequencies up to the next natural frequency. While the highest amplitude is seen at the first frequency, it decreases in increasing modes. The airframe structural model’s operational frequency must be 7.69 or 9.80 Hz to achieve sensitive vertical acceleration. Subsequently, it is aimed to develop an autonomous task by the implemented system controlled by various algorithm as a future work.	Bi-copter, Tandem Rotor, Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, Genetic Algorithm, optimization
497	INVESTIGATION OF BAKIRKOY-YENIKAPI BICYCLE ROAD	With the industrial revolution and the continuation of the production of motor vehicles in the historical process, motor vehicles became a part of daily life. This rapid change in transportation has increased the social and economic mobility in the cities and caused the city population to increase and increase rapidly. As cities continue to grow rapidly with the population, the journey in cities has increased their distance and duration. These developments in transportation have helped populate cities with more than millions. Therefore, the demand for transportation has increased in high-population cities. The high number of demands in urban transportation and mobility in transportation paved the way for intensive vehicle traffic. Traffic obstructions in the city affect daily life badly. Solutions were tried to be produced for transportation problems. Every solution brought was slow and subsequently resulted in increased demand.Transportation problems caused by fast and unplanned urbanization negatively affect the quality of life in cities. The bicycle, which is actively used in various countries of the world, is considered as a means of transportation on its own. Unfortunately, the use of bicycles could not be integrated into urban transport, since the importance of cycling in our country is not given sufficient importance and the required infrastructure is not created. Especially in our big cities, transportation planning based on motor vehicles has limited the transportation of pedestrians and bicycles and it has become impossible to reach from one point to another by pedestrian or bicycle in big cities. However, bicycle, which is a comfortable and convenient means of transportation for short trips, is the vehicle that should be preferred in terms of environment, health and traffic. Bicycle is one of the most environmentally friendly modes of transportation. Compared to motor vehicles, bicycle-based manpower is a means of transportation that does not contain any material that can cause noise and air pollution. Preferring to use bicycles in business, school, or shopping trips in daily life provides important benefits not only for the environment but also for human health. The use of bicycles, which allows people to do physical activity, causes problems such as cardiovascular diseases and obesity to decrease. Considering all these, the importance and necessity of bicycle transportation are clearly seen.It is desired to increase the use of bicycles as a solution to the traffic problem, which is one of the biggest problems of today. To make the bicycle roads more accessible and safe, many bicycle road applications are made in our country and the world. Although the use of bicycles in our country is not very common in large cities, it is more common in medium and small-scale cities. Security can be shown as the reason for this. As well as the safety of the bicycle roads, the level of comfort these roads provide to the rider is also very important. Bicycle routes are needed to use bicycles in a big city like Istanbul. Every bike path has features that it should have. It is very important to apply and maintain these rules, which must be followed when designing bicycle paths.In this study, the cycle path route between Bakırköy and Yenikapı has been investigated. A literature review was conducted in the study. With the literature review, information was obtained about the design of bicycle paths by considering the regulations and standards. As a result, the design criteria of the cycle path were determined according to the standards in the regulation. Also, it has been determined which parameters the bicycle users pay attention to in choosing the route. The examinations were based on standards and regulations. The inspections made along the route are shown in the study with photos. The research detailed with photographs was evaluated. Solutions and suggestions regarding the factors affecting the use of bicycles are presented.	Bike path, transportation, urban design
498	ONLINE Game Security: A Case Study of an MMO Strategy Game	Just as the Internet and the digital age are transforming life practices in every direction, the habits of playing games are taking its dominance with pervasive addiction while security concerns are alarming. Different terms are being used for the security issues of games in the literature like cheat, exploit, hack, attack. Massively multiplayer online role-playing games are joining the ranks of software popular enough to be bombarded by attacks. In this study, we explore the security issues of an online game and its protection measures on a sample game. We will use a Massively Multiplayer Online (MMO) strategy game that we have been developing as our case study, which utilizes different aspects of MMO concept that contains many security issues. We tried to point out the vulnerable points of MMO games and provide sufficient solutions to these problems by using an MMO strategy game as in our case study.	Online Games, Game Security, Risks and Threats, Cyber Game
499	New Designed Bushings for Reaching Intended Stiffness Values and Their Analysis in Torque Rod of Heavy Commercial Vehicles	The combination of various parts designed to absorb shock and vibrations in all motor vehicles constitutes the suspension system. The torque rod with the bushings at both ends, an important component of the suspension system, is the connecting element used in heavy commercial vehicles to connect the axle to the chassis. Providing defined movements and isolating noise and vibrations of the torque rod and other suspension components can be achieved by the proper combination of metal and rubber. Rubber-metal parts (bushings and joints) contribute to the damping of axial and torsional loads and increase driving comfort. In this study, the stiffness values of the bushings of the torque rods which are used in heavy commercial vehicles were provided to be in the desired range. Geometric dimensions of the metal component and amount of rubber of the bushing was modified in order to improve the axial, radial, torsional and cardanic stiffness values of the bushings. The analyses were performed with the aid of FEM and dynamic test devices.	Torque Rod, Bushings, Stiffness Values, Finite Element Method (FEM)
500	Experimental Verification of Output Inductor-less Phase-Shifted Full-Bridge Converter for Capacitor Charger Application	DC-DC power conversion can take three main forms in the sense of level conversion: buck (step-down), boost (step-up) and buck-boost (step-up/down). DC-DC power conversion from lower voltage value to a higher voltage value is called step-up application. A step-up application can be done with and without isolation. Non-isolated and isolated step-up power conversion can be achieved with different DC-DC converter topologies. In this paper, experimental verification of Output Inductor-less Phase-Shifted Full-Bridge (OIPSFB) DC/DC converter topology for constant current capacitor charging application is presented. The designed converter is able to charge an output capacitor to 700V DC. The charged capacitor can range from 1mF to 100mF. Experimental results are taken from a laboratory prototype with 24-36V DC input voltage range, maximum output power of 150W, switching frequency of 75 kHz and a digital average current mode controller. The results are for an output capacitor of 15 mF.	Output Inductor-less, Phase-Shifted Full-Bridge, Capacitor Charger, DC-DC power conversion
501	Infaunal Community Responses to the Gradient of Heavy-metals in Langstone Harbour, UK	The complex nature of the marine environments including a broad array of factors seems inconvenient to have specific indicator organisms alerting the changes in ecological quality based on pollutant inputs to water bodies. Benthic infauna, however, may respond to the pollution-induced spatial quality changes in a tidal inlet as they are incapable to avoid from the pollution sources and hence, from low quality of sediment and water. This research suggested that the interaction of sediment metal stressors and the possible associated factors finer grain fractions, estuary position and depth is likely to encounter with a specific distributional pattern of infauna. The communities of macroinfauna in Langstone Harbour were studied spatially from 36 samples collected across four subtidal stations, two each to the upper northern and the southern of the platform. The distinct variations in communities between and within stations and the most contributed species to variations were determined using multivariate analysis techniques. The structured model showed that the measured environmental factors explained 29.4% of infaunal community structure in the harbour with the highest contribution of chromium (6.6%). Environmental patterns suggested the increasing metal deposition in the finergrained muddy sediments towards the innermost basin with stagnant and shallower waters.	Macroinfaunal distribution, infaunal community, subtidal sediment, heavy metals, Langstone Harbour
502	Investigation of The Effect of Climate Change on Extreme Precipitation: Tekirdağ Case	"This study examines the potential impacts of climate change on extreme precipitation in a specific location, Tekirdağ, Turkey. Trends in rainfall extremes for (1963-2015 period) observed data of 5, 10, 15, 30 minutes and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 18, 24 hours are determined by using 1:1 straight line method and Mann-Kendall trend test. Also, daily (24h) future projections for Tekirdağ region are assessed and bias corrected with Quantile Mapping method for the 2015-2050 period. Subsequently, observed and bias corrected daily (24h) time series are used for the Generalized Extreme Value analyses to quantify the potential changes with respect to observation period. Most of the observed time series show increasing trend tendency. Considering the projected data driven analyses results; for shorter return periods results show smaller variations while variability increase with the increasing return period. Depending on the models and Representative Concentration Pathways, there are different results for the future extreme rainfall; yet all results indicate an increasing extreme daily rainfall magnitude at Tekirdağ Province."	Climate change, extreme rainfall, quantile mapping, Mann-Kendall trend test
503	Usage and Effects of Algaecide in Kurtboğazı Dam Lake	In recent years, the increased density and incidence of cyanobacteria, also known as blue-green algae, in water resources has become a growing global problem in consequence of the increasing temperature associated with climate change. The growth of cyanobacteria in dam lakes causes algae blooms and deteriorates water quality. Since it contains Methyl-Isoborneol, Geosmin and toxins, taste and odour problems in water occur and those threatens public health. Rising density of algae causes an increase in the total amount of organic carbon in water, which increases the amount of disinfection by-products. In this study, algae control applications were performed during the summer period kesin tarih parantez içinde verilmelidir. The water samples were taken before and after the algaecide application, and total organic carbon, pH, chlorophyll-a, dissolved oxygen, copper, turbidity, orthophosphate phosphorus and total nitrogen were analysed. In order to calculate the amount and depth of the algaecide application, we determined which cyanobacterial species would be used. Copper ethanolomine is the main constituent of the algaecide so copper contamination in water has been investigated. In general, the density of cyanobacteria in bay and stagnant waters was increase before its application. According to the results of the study, appropriate doses and times are supporters to prevent algae blooms and to control sudden increases in the number of algae. In accordance with the results of the analysis, permanent copper pollution does not occur at different depths or at different points. However, a smallamount of increase in the samples taken during the algaecide effect time can be seen from time to time.	algaecide, alg control, kurtboğazı, algal bloom
504	Evaluation of Reuse of Wastewater in Agriculture in Turkey: Outbreak Perspective of Covid-19	The recent outbreak of novel coronavirus disease 2019 has become a public health emergency worldwide. The virus, SARS-CoV-2 is spread by human to human transmission via droplets or direct contact. Although there is no evidence of its transmission from wastewater, the virus has been discovered in wastewater. Recent studies showed that SARS-CoV-2 is very sensitive to oxidants such as chlorine. Therefore, disinfection units of treatment plants need to be operated to avoid virus existence in the environment. Moreover, the disinfection process is vital if treated water is going to be used in irrigation. More than one-third of the effluents of wastewater treatment plants in Turkey reaches to agricultural irrigation facilities. The majority of these waste water treatment plants do not have a disinfection unit. Agricultural areas irrigated with treated wastewater have a rich crop pattern in Turkey. Almost half of these agricultural areas used to grow raw-consumable products. Therefore, disinfection units need to be operated properly and the facilities without disinfection unit should be revised. Moreover, regulations are not comprehensive to prevent public health in terms of reuse of wastewater in agriculture in Turkey. There are one regulation and one standard available considering reuse of wastewater in irrigation but neither of them is not covering indirect reuse of treated wastewater in the downstream. Therefore, to prevent public health it is needed to update regulations to include indirect reuse of wastewater.	Sars-Cov-2, covid-19, wastewater, water reuse, irrigation
505	Microplastics in Environment and Effects on Biota	Plastics are used in many different fields because they are light, cheap and easy to process and become one of the most important commercial materials of today. The use of plastics is increasing every year, and since most of these materials are disposable and their wastes are not managed well, it brings environmental pollution problem. Particles smaller than 5 mm and known as microplastics are formed as a result of the breakdown of plastics by different processes in nature or as a result of direct use such as microbonces, textile fibers. Microplastics are ubiquitous in nature and are of concern for ecosystems. Environmental problems related with microplastic and studies on this subject have become the focus of interest in the last decade. Microplastics into receiving water from different sources poses a threat to aquatic organisms and humans. In this study, microplastics in different environments and their effects on environment and human health were reviewed.	microplastic, receiving body, health effect, pollution
506	MODELING THE IMPACT OF PLANNED HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANTS ON ECOSYSTEMS	Estimates of the impact of hydroelectric power plants(HPPs) on an ecosystem are exemplified by the HPPs construction planned inMongolia in the transboundary Selenga river basin. Implementation of the HPPs projectscan lead to essential changes in natural hydrological regime of the Selenga river basin in the Russian Federation, which willinfluence the regional ecosystems and economy. The international status ofnatural objects in Russia, which can be affected by these projects, is animportant factor. First of all, this concerns Lake Baikal, the World naturalheritage site. The paper contains the main results of this problem research. Basedon an analysis of hydrological characteristics of Mongolian and Russian partsof the Selenga river basin, and plans for the development of water supplysystems and hydro power in Mongolia, the regulated flow of the Selenga river wasmodeled for different possible operating conditions of HPPs and hydraulicstructures (the projects of the Shuren HPP, the Egiin Gol HPP, and the Orkhon-Gobiwater diversion system). Possible risks of the impact of potential MongolianHPPs are revealed, first of all, the risks for the ecosystems of Russian partof the Selenga river. The impact is estimated for separate and joined projects(cumulative impact). The risks of the impact of the HPP construction and operationmean the probability that the values of hydrological, hydro-morphological,morphometric, physicochemical and other abiotic and biotic characteristics ofecosystems will go beyond the limits of natural variability.	Hydroelectric power plants, Hydrological characteristics, Environmental flow, Abiotic and biotic characteristics, Ecosystems
507	The Key to Prosperity for the Development of Prosthetic Technology Through Micro-Nanotechnology	"Each era has itsown technology and called modern technology; asthey reached what the previous generation did not end up to it. The moderntechnology for such generation is questionable, whether it is globallywidespread or limited and confined within its bordered. Using the technology issomething and reproducing it and making contribution in developing theinfrastructure of technology is something else. With regard to technology,community lays into two classes, whereas the first class is nothing butconsumers’ communities, and the other class is the creative and innovativecommunities. In the light of knowledge and honesty of the educating people; thehigher the level of knowledge they attained, the more developing communityachieved. Their resources of technology are defined by their knowledge, unfortunately;not always they dig deep to get the latest science from the academic instituteswhere they were educated. The gap of technology between the produced communityand consumed communities gets widening and the escarpment gets deeper, thus; laggingthe developed community, and this is why such country called developingcountries. Education and technology should interact to improve the outcomesthat has direct influence on societal prosperity."	Modern Technology, Developing Countries, Education, Societal Prosperity
519	Characterization and Properties Comparison of Nigerian Crab-shell Extracts	Efforts aimed at large scale isolation of chitin and chitosan from marine exoskeletons are being intensified due to their emerging usage in several applications. In this study, extraction of chitin and chitosan was carried out on crab shell of Nigerian origin. Chemical treatments involving demineralization with 1.2MHCl and deproteinization using 1M NaOH at 1000C were employed. This was followed by deacetylation of chitin to produce chitosan. The extracts chitin and chitosan were characterized using SEM, FTIR, DTA and XRD analytical tools. Results of these characterisations compared well with established spectral bands and degradation temperatures of both chitin and chitosan which are 388oC and 342oC respectively. The presence of CaCO3 in a standard crystalline form as revealed by XRD analysis coupled with the exhibition of peculiar microstructural features through SEM suggest that the biopolymer could be spurn into fibrous mat for wound dressing, scaffold for drug delivery as well find application in suture material development. Contributions from this study have the potential of extending the frontiers of knowledge in tissue engineering. Results of Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) analysis on crab shells, chitin and chitosn showed the absorption band of 1798, 3460-3268, 1628-1558 cm1 respectively.	Marine exoskeletons, spectral bands, degradation temperature, biopolymer, chitin, chitosan
520	DESIGN OF EXPERIMENT FOR ETHANOL USING STATISTICAL ANALYSIS FOR MANUFACTURING OF METHYLATED SPIRIT	Methylated spirit is a useful domestic and industrial product which serves as very important item at home, Industries, Schools and Hospitals. This study is focused on the production of high quality methylated spirit using palm wine as the primary raw material. The effects of fermentation period on alcohol content and characteristics of the palm wine was also examined to ascertain the quality and effectiveness of the methylated spirit produced. Split-split plot design statistical model was employed at different stages of production such as conversion, fermentation, distillation, filtration and dehydration. Effective steps were taken to monitor temperature, yeast, density, percentage of alcohol and time which are factors that affect fermentation of palm wine. It was observed that during fermentation, there was increase in the temperature indicating possible evolution of heat, thereby, making the fermentation process exothermic. Percentage of ethanol obtained from the first, second and third distillation processes were 25%, 65% and 90%. It was observed that the longer the fermentation time, the lesser the percentage content of alcohol in the solution, which must undergo re-distillation in order to obtain higher percentage of alcohol (ethanol).	Methylated Spirit, Fermentation, Distillates, Alcohol, Statistical model
521	Frequency modeling of rainfall intensities using a probability and a non-probability distribution function for Abuja metropolis, Nigeria	The aim of this study is to analyze rainfall data so as to develop rainfall intensity – duration – frequency (IDF) models and curves for Abuja metropolis, Nigeria. A thirty-one years data set was obtained, checked for consistency and then used for the modeling. The method of Annual Series was used to select the data sets for the rainfall analysis. The data were fitted to Gumbel Extreme Value Type – 1 (GEVT – 1), Log Pearson Type III (LPT – 3), Pearson Type III (PLT – 3), Normal and Log Normal (LN) Distributions. Probability distribution function (PDF) and Non-Probability distribution function (nPDF) were calibrated to obtain the IDF models. Chi-squared goodness-of- ?t test was used to confirm the appropriateness of the fitted distributions for the location. The Gumbel Extreme Value distribution has the best fit and was adopted in developing models using the PDF (power model). The location parameters resulting from GEVT – 1 were determined thus: c = 23.16, m = 0.21 and e = 0.55. Five IDF models were developed using the nPDF (quotient model) for return periods of 2, 5, 10, 16 and 32 years. The coefficient of correlation (R2) for different return periods for all models developed showed very high values ranging from 0.7538 to 0.9927, an indication of good curve fitting. The IDF models developed for Abuja showed no significant difference when compared with results from locations within the same zone using t-test of significance though durations of 12 and 24 hours had exceptions. The application of IDF models (power law and quotient) with return period of 10 years and rainfall duration of 2 hours for design of a typical rectangular drainage channel was found to be okay. The IDF models and curves are recommended for the prediction of rainfall events for Abuja.	Frequency Modelling, Probability and Non-probability Functions, Intensity Duration frequency Curve, Abuja
522	Dynamic Seismic Spectrum Analyses of a 120 m High Reinforced Concrete Chimney According to Turkish Building Earthquake Code 2018 (TBEC-2018)	Reinforced concrete chimneys are tall and slender structures that are more vulnerable to seismic actions. In recent earthquakes, many of them severely damaged or totally collapsed. Therefore, it is an inevitable duty to analyze the structural response of these tall and slender structures under different seismic codes. In this study, the structural response of a 120 m high RC chimney under the seismic spectrum provided in Turkish Building Earthquake Code 2018 is determined. At the end of the analyses, the top displacement and base shear is obtained and the top displacement is compared with the limit value provided in ACI 307/98 that this comparison showed that the considered chimney is safe (only on the basis of top displacement comparison). Also, other linear and nonlinear seismic analyses should be performed to verify the structural response results obtained in this study.	Reinforced Concrete, Chimney, Spectrum, Seismic, Earthquake Code
528	Design of an innovative PV/T and heat pump system for greenhouse heating	The very high annual heat demand of greenhouses is the most critical factor that increases production costs. Conventional methods are generally used to obtain the optimum temperature required for greenhouses. In these systems, greenhouse air is heated by a boiler and pipe networks are connected to it, and in this way, most of the heat energy is transferred from the greenhouse ceiling to the atmosphere. In addition, in the greenhouse, not only the air but also the soil should be heated in order not to spoil the roots of the plants. The objective of this research is to provide sustainable heating for greenhouse applications. For this purpose, an innovative heating system has been designed for greenhouse heating by using of solar energy and heat pump technologies. In this study, a new approach was presented by designing a novelty heat pump flow for the heat required in the greenhouse. With this design, not only greenhouse air but also the soil will be heated and the best conditions for the development of plants will be provided. In the system, an ethylene glycol water mixture was used to prevent damage caused by freezing. In addition, it is designed to provide sustainability with an auxiliary heater when solar radiation is insufficient. It is highly recommended to apply this presented system for all greenhouse types.	Energy efficiency, Greenhouse heating, Heat pump, Solar energy
531	Usage of Obsidian (Igneous Energy) in Both Radiation Detection and Fixed-Target Machine in Discovery of Subatomic Particles	Obsidian is amorphousmaterial which contains SiO2 compound and also is to be taken outfrom volcanic mountains. 75% of obsidian comprises quartz. Quartz is the requiredmaterial to observe the piezoelectric effect. Obsidian originally comes from the mantle of the earth crust. When itcontacts with oxygen in the air, it solidifies suddenly with no any opportunitythat switches to crystallized state. Because of that reason, it becomesamorphous silica. If some chemicals such as fluorine or hydrogen with respectto semiconductors process is connected into silicon (a-si:H) that let to seephotoconductivity property will be revealed. Radiation detectors have anability of absorption. In this article, obsidian is debated on whether it canbe useful for radiation detection as an absorber or not and furthermore, isevaluated if obsidian is focused on the fixed target machine as stationarytarget area related with the discovery of subatomic particles.	Obsidian, Volcanic, Amorphous, Radiation Detectors, Fixed-Target Machine
546	Investigation of Active Tectonics of Edremit Gulf, Western Anatolia (Turkey), Using High-Resolution Multi-Channel Marine Seismic Data	"?The Edremit Gulf is situated on the upper Miocene transtensional basin in the Western Anatolia and formed by the interaction between the North Anatolian Fault (NAF) and the N-S extensional tectonic regime of the Aegean domain. Our study is aimed to investigate the structural effects of these tectonic forces in the Gulf. Thus, approximately 300km. seismic data were collected within the Gulf area using the high-resolution seismic reflection method. The results indicated that the interpretation of the data, an E-W oriented, strike-slip fault system (Edremit Bay Fault - EBF) was identified in the Gulf as a possible continuation of the Havran - Balıkesir Fault Zone which can be followed on land. Likewise, a second strike-slip fault system (Edremit - Lesbos Fault; ELF) was observed which crosses the Gulf towards Lesbos Island in the NE-SW direction. This system was interpreted as the possible continuation of the Yenice - Gönen Fault Zone which is thought to be the branch of the North Anatolian Fault."	Marine tectonics, Marine seismic, Western Anatolia, Edremit Gulf, Strike-Slip tectonics
561	Investigation of Nickel Effects on Matt Cast Iron Enamel	Cast iron is the generic name for iron-carbonalloys containing more than 2% carbon content. It can melt at low temperaturescompared to steel and has low cost. The surfaces of cast irons, which can beused in many areas from construction to kitchen equipment, are coated withenamel to prevent corrosion, increase wear resistance and easy to clean.Enamels are glassy coating materials obtained by adding various oxides such asAl2O3, B2O3, ZrO2, NiO, CoO into SiO2. The raw materials used and the oxidesformed during production have a direct effect on the end product properties ofthe enamel. NiO and CoO are the most essential oxides affecting the bondingperformance of the enamel to the metallic surface. Although NiO has littleeffect on glassy structures, it improves the adherence performance. It is alsoeffective on the aesthetic appearance of the enamel. It gives a dark color tothe enamel and prevents fish scale defects, with the latest regulations, theuse of nickel in enamels has been restricted for health and environmentalsafety reasons. For this reason, studies have started to develop a newgeneration of nickel-free enamels suitable for regulations. In this study, thedevelopment of enamel that can be applied to cast iron surfaces having a mattappearance that does not contain nickel and the effect of nickel on enamelproperties were investigated. In the existing frit compositions, new fritrecipes were prepared, which did not contain nickel and were applied to castiron surfaces by wet application method. Heat microscopy analysis of preparedfrit was performed. Microstructure, chemical abrasion resistance, colorproperties, surface properties, coating adherence performance, and the effectof nickel on these properties were investigated.	enamel, cast iron, nickel free, metal coatings
565	THE IMPORTANCE OF NANO BIOSENSORS AND ETHICAL ELEMENTS IN SPORTS PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS	"Performance analysis is an indispensable element for elite sports success. Coaches and teams are constantly striving for ways to improve and maximize their performance. Effective use of performance analysis enables tactical, decision making, better athletic confidence and improvement of reflective coaching technique. Performance analysis is required for coaches and athletes to ensure consistent success rates, especially at elite levels. Although performance analysis seems necessary in elite sports, we should recognize the benefits and disadvantages associated with the individual athlete and sports system that regulate their distribution for their use. These are a new technology, nanobiosensor, a concept that combines biomedical field with sports engineering and nanotechnology and ethically addresses future performance analysis in sports. In this study, this concept is discussed. This innovative technology has the potential to revolutionize sports and enables athletes to collect real-time biological data electronically. Affinity-based nanobiosensors have also been taken into consideration in sports medicine and doping control analysis because they are cheap and easy-to-use, yet selectively analytical devices. Allows the use of the same sensor for multiple analyzes. At the same time, nanobiosensors can contribute to filling an important information gap about complementary evidence from their “on-site” use and pre-selecting the risk population of individuals to be targeted for a complete antidoping test; In sports medicine, they can contribute to obtaining analytical knowledge of physiological relevance from measurement of specific parameters or markers before, during and after physical exercise. However, as with many technologies, this technology may have undesirable uses. These unwanted uses are; data ownership and privacy may affect data privacy and well-being of athletes. While the use of nanobiosensors in sports analysis in the future offers many potential benefits, there is also a concern that they can be abused. For this reason, it is essential for sports organizations to consider the development of a sound, ethically informed governance framework before their increased use. Thus, the value of sports and athletes will become more prominent. For this reason, it is very important for athletes and their regulators to develop measures to ethically integrate this technology into sports."	sports engineering, performance analysis
566	VIABILITY AND MORPHOLOGY OF HUMAN DENTAL PULP STEM CELLS IN THE PRESENCE OF CITRUS PECTIN	Pectin is a galacturonic acid rich heteropolysaccharide which regulates plant cell metabolism. Plenty of fresh fruits and fruit pomaces from fruit juice production can be used as a raw material in commercial pectin production. Pectin occupies a large global market size especially in food industry and the utilization of waste materials for obtaining pectin molecules as a high value-added product makes it very favorite industrial material. Besides food industry, pectin is gaining attention in tissue engineering and drug development studies. In this study, the effects of citrus pectin on viability and morphology of human dental pulp stem cell (hDPSC) were investigated. The cells were cultured in the presence of pectin in culture medium (0.43, 0.85 and 1.7 mg/mL) for eight days. Resazurin application and MTT assay were applied on day one and eight for cellular viability. Cellular morphology was investigated by invert phase contrast microscope, live/dead cell staining and F-actin/nucleus immunofluorescence staining. MTT analysis results indicated that the viability of hDPSCs decreased significantly due to dissolved pectin in culture medium at applied concentrations. There was no significant morphological difference in the cells under invert phase contrast microscope and no significant staining difference in live/dead cell staining images. On the other hand, F-actin/nucleus staining showed that there were some condensed and crescent cell nuclei in the pectin applied groups when compared to the control groups which may be related to apoptosis. In conclusion, the viability of hDPSCs decreased and crescent cell nuclei formation was observed due to the presence of citrus pectin in the cell culture medium.	Pectin, human dental pulp, mesenchymal stem cell
577	Stability analysis of medium sized power plants subjected to grid events	Connection of small generatingunits in the medium voltage distribution system is increasing substantially.Such units, called distributed generation, can have a significant impact on,load flow, shortcircuit, voltage, frequency, power quality, stability,islanding and synchronized running, protection and reliability. In this study,the stability impact of a private sector power plant in Thrace region havingsynchronous generators driven by gas engine and gas turbine has beeninvestigated in terms of fault ride through capability. Critical clearing timehas been determined, once the criteria of fault ride through capability wereexplored. Grid operators do limit penetration levels of such plants and canalso disconnect available units when grid fails. Stability is affected byvoltage dip much worsely than penetration levels. It has been seen that thedisconnection of power plants is not necessary, when the voltage dip restrictedto 0,5 pu. Also that the stability is positively affected when the power factoris decreased to 0,8 from 1,0. The results also show that even 100% penetratedsynchronous generator based power plants in distribution system do not affectstability badly in steady state operation.	Stability analysis, power plants, distribution grid, gas engine, gas turbine, grid events
609	Feasibility of Micro-Nanotechnology in Biomedical Applications	Biomedical devices aremultidisciplinary field that have the potential to provide patient withartificial tiny devices and bring them back to their regular life. Organs ofthe human body are varying in size, structure and function, from neurons in thehuman brain, which contains around 100 billion neurons, to nephron in renal system, which in healthyadult has 0.8 to 1.5 million nephrons in each kidney. High-scale of technology asthe core of every single device will have a deep impact on fabrication suchtiny devices. Therefore, such technology should always be developing and upgradingto meet human needs that is including but not limited to medicine, drugs, food,and sports, etc. Micro/Nanotechnology is capable to perform what no one hasever imagined or even thought possible. Miniaturizing devices using MEMStechnology has become essential and strongly required to build such failureorgan in human body. Accordingly, a new generation will come to light with newcapabilities, new products and new markets. This cannot be done withoutimplementing and adapting higher technology system that will lead to thisquality of life.	NEMS Technology, MEMS Technology, Biomedical Devices
610	Renewable energy politics from the perspectives sustainability: Economy, ecology and energy	"Many new concepts have been constructed by associating many familiar concepts such as tourism, energy, agriculture and development to the term of sustainability. Some of them are; sustainable development, sustainable agriculture and sustainable tourism etc. Undoubtedly, sustainability is mentioned in many areas such as media, politics, economics and academia. This concept is tried to be gained through the information and practices provided about sustainability to the individuals who make up the society. It is known that sustainability in science education is not evaluated with a holistic approach from the perspective of economy, ecology and energy. If it is assumed that individuals have not theoretical background and culture about sustainability, there can be thought that they will have problem for sustainable lifestyle. Therefore, it can be said that theoretical and practical studies which will help individuals are important in order to a more livable World. The purpose of this study is to construct broad a conceptual framework upon renewable energy policies from the sustainability perspective by linking the terms of economy, ecology and energy known in the literature as 3E. In the method of this research, firstly sustainability is examined from a holistic approach and was developed a model. Then starting from sustainability, socio-scientific issues, production, wastes, ecology, sociology, feminism, cultures, developmental differences, energy production, energy storage and transportation, the renewable ones, photosynthesis, biomass and pyrolysis are connected and interrelated in holistic manner by considering chemistry and politics. In the result of the research, it is arisen that conservative and elder women who is the ability to be happy while consuming less which must be followed and obeyed. By this way, new insights can be obtained and deduced for better inhabitable world peacefully."	Science Education, Sustainability, Energy, Environment, Wastes, Economy
611	Synthesis of New Bisbenzimidazole Salts and Determination Their Ligand Activities in C-C Coupling Reactions	New bisbenzimidazole salts were synthesized with 1,4-bis(1H-benzo[d]imidazol-1-yl)butane and benzyl halides. These new ligands carried out in Suzuki-Miyaura and Heck-Mizoroki C-C coupling reaction in the presence of palladium(II) acetate. It was observed that remarkable ligand activities of these benzimidazolium halides (L1, L2, L3).	Bisbenzimidazole, C-C coupling, Suzuki-Miyaura, Mizoroki-Heck, biphenyl, stilbene
612	In Dynamic Systems with Fuzzy ? - Cutting Determination of Membership Function Ranges	Uncertainties and inaccuracies in the membership function value ranges defined by the expert in dynamic systems cause serious errors in system output. In this study, fuzzy ?-cutting technique was used to determine the ranges of membership functions on the universal cluster and neighborhood values of normal values were calculated for different ? cutting coefficients and then neighborhood values were adjusted according to determined step values. Thus, while determining the value range of membership function in dynamic systems, it will be possible to talk about its neighborhood in the values that serve the same purpose. Operation in the dynamic process as wind power installation for Turkey wind energy interval value set in the potential atlas used and ? cutting techniques of the gap on the universal set of the determined value with re-calculation and determination are provided.	Dynamic systems, ? - Cutting technique, Fuzzy cluster, Membership function
613	Evaluation of Noise Emission in A Textile Plant	Textile industry is characterized by the use of complicated machinery in mass production methods in order to meet increased consumption demands. This situation brings with it some issues for the employees. Many of the machines used in textile industry are operating at high noise levels. In this study, noise measurements taken from dyeing/finishing and weaving divisions in an integrated textile factory in Malatya city, Turkey were evaluated. Frequency distribution of dominant noise is also examined. Workers in weaving division were exposed to higher levels of noise than those in dyeing/finishing. Accordingly, the noise level in weaving ranged from 99.2 to 101.1 dBA, while that in dyeing/finishing ranged from 77.1 to 79.3 dBA. It is also outside the 4000 Hz frequency zone, where the dominant frequencies of the maximum noise levels exposed by those working in the measured divisions fall in the middle frequency range to which the ear is most sensitive. Considering the frequency distribution, noise levels in the 4000 Hz region are calculated to be between 84.2 and 86.8 dBA in the weaving division and 60.0 to 61.9 dBA in the dyeing/finishing division. A noise histogram showed that noise in the weaving division had spread over a wider range than the dyeing/finishing division.	Noise exposure, ? octave band frequency, spectral analysis, frequency-noise relationship
615	INTEGRATION OF CUSTOM STREET VIEW AND LOW COST MOTION SENSORS	Virtual reality is an artificial computer-generated environment generally referred as virtual reality environment which can be navigated and interacted with by a user. Street View, which was released by Google in 2007, is an ideal tool to discover places and locations. This service doesn’t only provide spatial information, but also a virtual reality environment for the user. Since this service is only available in certain locations, Google enables users to create a street view with custom panoramic images with the help of Google Maps Application Programming Interface (API) for JavaScript. In this study, it is aimed to integrate body motions with a custom created street view service for Yildiz Technical University Davutpasa Campus which has a historical environment and huge places to discover. Microsoft Kinect for Xbox 360 motion sensor along with Flexible Action and Articulated Skeleton Toolkit (FAAST) interface has been employed for this purpose. This integration provides a low-cost alternative for virtual reality experience. The proposed system can be implemented for virtual museums, heritage sites or planetariums consisting of panoramic images.	Street View, Kinect, Virtual Reality, Body motion control
616	COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF THE PYSEBAL MODEL AND LYSIMETER FOR ESTIMATING ACTUAL EVAPOTRANSPIRATION OF SOYBEAN CROP IN ADANA, TURKEY	Accurate estimation of evapotranspiration (ET) is an important factor in water management, especially in irrigated agriculture. Accurate irrigation scheduling requires accurate estimation of ET. The objective of this study was to estimate the actual evapotranspiration (ETa) by the pySEBAL model and to compare it with the actual evapotranspiration measured by the lysimeter method of soybean crop in Adana, Turkey. Five Landsat 5 Thematic Mapper (TM) images and weather data were used for this study to estimate actual evapotranspiration by the pySEBAL model. The results showed a good relationship between ETa estimated by the pySEBAL model and ETa measured by the lysimeter method, with an R2 of 0.73, an RMSE of 0.51 mm.day?1, an MBE of 0.04 mm.day?1 and a Willmott’s index of agreement (d) of 0.90. Based on this study, there is a good relationship between the actual evapotranspiration estimated by the pySEBAL model and the actual evapotranspiration measured by the lysimeter method. Consequently, ETa of soybean crop can be estimated with high accuracy by the pySEBAL model in Adana, Turkey.	Actual Evapotranspiration, Lysimeter, PySEBAL Model, Remote Sensing
617	A Comparison of the Relationship Between Electricity Consumption and Gross Domestic Product According to Development Status of Countries	Electricity is a necessary requirement for the economic, social and cultural progress for all developed, developing and under-developed countries. This paper examines the relationships between electricity consumption and gross domestic product in 30 countries, using data for the period 1995–2014. These countries are classified according to their developmental status. Widely used tests for the panel unit root, heterogeneous panel cointegration, and panel-based error correction models were employed. The empirical results indicate that electricity consumption and economic growth appear to be cointegrated. The long-run and short-run relationship are estimated using suitable estimations. The results show that the developmental levels of countries differ in their impact on the relationship between electricity consumption and GDP.	Electricity consumption, Developmental status, Panel data analysis, Long-run, Short-run.
620	A NOVEL APPROACH FOR IONOSPHERIC TOTAL ELECTRON CONTENT EARTHQUAKE PRECURSOR AND EPICENTER DETECTION FOR LOW-LATITUDE	The earthquake precursory phenomena detection using ionospheric perturbation characteristics is a new technique used by the scientist now days. This paper focuses a new technique for detecting any modification in the time series profile shape caused by an impending earthquake to identify precursors as well as an image processing technique for epicenter detection. For this purpose IGS Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Total Electron Content Data (TEC) are utilized from different stations across the world. From the experiment it is observed that the method may detect earthquake precursors a few hours or days prior to the main event due to ionospheric perturbations induced by initiation of earthquake process.	GNSS, Total Electron Content, ionosphere
621	A RULE-BASED APPROACH FOR GENERATING URBAN FOOTPRINT MAPS: FROM ROAD NETWORK TO URBAN FOOTPRINT	Decision and policymakers need urban footprint data for monitoring human impact on the urban ecosystem for politics and services. Deriving urban footprint is a challenging work since it has rapidly changing borders. The existing methods for deriving urban footprint map based on raster images have several steps such as determination of indicators and parameters of image classification. These steps limit the process by an operator since they require human decisions. This paper proposes a new rule-based approach for obtaining urban footprint based on Delaunay triangulation among selected centroids of roads and dead-end streets. The selection criterion is determined as maximum road length by using standard deviation operator. To produce urban footprints, this method needs no other data or information apart from road network geometry. This means that the proposed method uses only intrinsic indicators and measures. The experimental study was conducted with OpenStreetMap road data of Washington DC, Madrid, Stockholm, and Wellington. The comparisons with authority data prove that the proposed method is sufficient in many parts of urban and suburban lands.	OpenStreetMap, Urban footprint, TIN, Road network analysis, Land use
622	ACCURACY AND SIMILARITY ASPECTS IN ONLINE GEOCODING SERVICES: A COMPARATIVE EVALUATION FOR GOOGLE AND BING MAPS	"Geocoding is a method used to convert address information into geographical coordinates. It plays a vital role in displaying the relationship between geographic features and semantic information expressed in texts. The objective of this study is to reveal the quality of online geocoding from postal addresses in Turkey provided by Google Maps and Bing Maps services. The quality of geocoding services in urban areas is evaluated using two particular metrics; positional accuracy and address similarity. Positional accuracy measures the distances between point features obtained through the online geocoding and reference data. Address similarity indicates the relationship between two postal addresses based on a similarity index known as the Levenshtein distance. The same performance assessment was also made with the United States’ address data to make comparisons and discussions. The results show that services have different geocoding capabilities in both countries because of the differences in the addressing formats."	Geocoding, GoogleMaps, BingMaps, Positional accuracy, Levenshtein distance
623	New analytical solutions for space and time fractional Phi-4 equation	In this paper, by utilizing an analytical method based on the Jacobi elliptic functions, the largest set in the literature of time, space and space-time conformable fractional Phi-4 equations is found. These solutions are obtained in general form including rational, trigonometric, hyperbolic and complex functions. Four problems are presented to illustrate the application of the method and some of the solutions are also demonstrated by the graphics.	Jacobi elliptic functions, Space-time fractional Phi-4 equation, Conformable fractional derivative, Analytic method
626	Temperature and Relative Humidity Models of The Malatya City	"In this study, the temperature changes Malatya provinces located in the Euphrates Basin are analyzed and modeled on the basis of 24 years of observation process (1996-2019). Relative humidity models were analyzed by observing the yearly mean temperatures of provinces, the lowest mean temperatures of winter months (December, January and February) and the highest mean temperatures of summer months (June, July and August). With the help of these models; temperature and humidity estimations can be made for future years and these models can be used in energy related studies"	Temperature, Relative humidity, Meteorological data, Modelling
628	PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS OF AMBIGUITY RESOLUTION ON PPP AND RELATIVE POSITIONING TECHNIQUES: CONSIDERATION OF SATELLITE GEOMETRY	Ambiguity resolution plays an important role in surveying using Precise Point Positioning (PPP) and relative positioning techniques that require high accuracy. In this study, ambiguity resolution performance of PPP and relative positioning under the unobstructed (with 7° cut-off angle) and constrained environment (with 25° cut-off angle, such as nearby buildings and street-canyons) using final/ultra-rapid orbit and clock products are investigated for different observation time. Seventeen globally distributed stations and six baselines of lengths from 270 km to 2100 km are chosen for conducting PPP and relative positioning, respectively. A 31-day period in January 2018 is chosen for processing using 24-, 12-, 6-, 4-, 2- and 1-h observations. The results indicate that sub-mm to cm levels of improvement in horizontal and vertical coordinate components are generally observed with ambiguity resolution for PPP and relative positioning techniques compared to the float counterparts. Moreover, accuracy degradation of ambiguity resolution compared to float solution is observed generally in the vertical component using the 25° elevation cut-off angle for both techniques. As the observation time increases, the accuracy improvements from ambiguity resolution decrease for each technique. In addition, fixing to the wrong integer ambiguities are generally seen with a short observation time and a 25° elevation cut-off angle for both techniques due to the poor satellite geometry. As far as baseline length in relative technique is concerned, the testing results show that there is no direct relation between baseline length and the accuracy improvement from ambiguity resolution compared to the float solution. The results also reveal that the coordinates obtained from ambiguity resolution does not significantly change in the relative technique using final or ultra-rapid orbit/clock products, whereas the changes in PPP are significant for most of the stations.	Ambiguity Resolution, GPS, Precise Point Positioning, Relative Positioning, Satellite Geometry
638	Aerodynamic Wing Design With Biomimetic Approach And A Practice	Since the industrial revolution, the use of energy has become indispensable in our lives. Besides the increasing world population increases the need for energy, our need for petroleum-derived fuels, which are mostly obtained from underground sources in transportation vehicles, has increased. Limited, expensive, non-recyclable and insensitive to the environment, these fuels harm humanity for various reasons. Nowadays, besides the efforts to find alternative fuels for these fuels, the ways of using these fuels in the most economical way are being investigated. One branch of this research and development is aerodynamic design. In this study, in vehicle design, aerodynamic rim wing design is discussed. The aerodynamic structure of the wings minimized the swept air resistance. Thus, energy saving and wheel surface quality is improved.	Aerodynamics, Wing Design, Biomimetic
640	The Effect of Production Ergonomy on Product Quality in the Context of Built-in Oven Production Line	"There are many studies discussing the issue of ergonomics in the context of sick leave and social expenditures. However, there are fewer studies linking production ergonomics with other factors such as quality and efficiency. It would be useful to discuss production ergonomics in a wider context. The study was carried out as a pilot study in a factory where a built-in oven was produced. The aim of the study is to show that there is a relationship between production ergonomics and the product quality produced in the factory. In the study, retrospective 20-week production line data were analyzed. As a result of the analysis, a series of quality errors were selected and the assembly tasks associated with these errors were determined. Aassembly tasks are classified by the company's Occupational Safety and Health Specialist as ergonomically appropriate or not ergonomically suitable for operators. When the difference between the number of errors related to the ergonomic categories is examined, it is found that there are three times more errors in ergonomically inappropriate tasks compared to ergonomically appropriate tasks. The work to be done to make the ergonomically inappropriate tasks suitable, the time plan and the responsible people were determined. The results of the study showed that there is a relationship between product quality and production ergonomics. The calculations in the study showed that the error rate would decrease by 90% in ergonomically optimized tasks; thus, business management has made a positive decision to invest in equipment to the relevant workstations. In return for the investment cost in the study, resources are used for value generating works and an increase in the number of correctly produced products is guaranteed."	Quality, Ergonomics, Manuel assembly
641	Finite Element Analysis to Predict Thrust Force and Torque in Drilling of Aged and Annealed Inconel 718	In this study, drilling of two kinds of Inconel 718 superalloys (aged and annealed) were simulated with FEM based Deform 3D V.11 software, and the effects of feed rate and cutting speed on thrust force and drilling torque have been investigated. A 5 mm diameter uncoated carbide twist drill with a web thickness of 0.75 mm was modelled, and drilling operations were simulated for two feed rates (0.05 and 0.1 mm/rev) and two cutting speeds (10 and 20 m/min). The workpieces were modelled by using Johnson-Cook (J-C) material model whose parameters acquired from the published literature. Thrust forces and drilling torques of aged Inconel 718 were found to be considerably larger than that of annealed Inconel 718 under the same cutting conditions.	Drilling, Inconel 718, Thrust force, Drilling torque, FEM
646	Starch-Based Bioplastic Materials for Packaging Industry	In this study, we performed the production of bioplastic from corn starch by condensation polymerization. We used a natural intensifier such as glycerin to make the corn starch into a bioplastic material. Bioplastic and its nanocomposites via carbon fiber microelectrode (CFME), TiO2 and nanoclay were synthesized to study its application in package industry. FTIR-ATR, TGA-DTA, SEM-EDX and mechanical analysis were taken to characterize the bioplastic based nanocomposites. We used different amounts of addition of CFME (0.2%, 0.5% and 1%), TiO2 (1%, 3% and 5%) and nanoclay (1%, 3% and 5%) to obtain the optimum condition for the bioplastic material. We obtained proper results for bioplastic/CFME nanocomposite addition of 1%, bioplastic / TiO2 and bioplastic / nanoclay nanocomposites addition of 5% in the composite material. Based on the literature that can be used in packaging industry without harming the environment, this is our main objective.	Polymer, biopolymer, bioplastic, packaging industry, biodegradable materials
647	A Research Study on Prevention of Occupational Accidents in the Construction Sector during the Design Process	Safety by design has recently become one of the most significant research topics. It is believed that safety by design will provide profits to the construction sector by improving efficiency, reducing operating costs, reducing hazards and risks, and decreasing expensive accident prevention methods on the site. The aim of this study is to determine the awareness of the safety by design in the Turkish construction sector, and to raise awareness of the importance among the professional stakeholders in order to anticipate occupational accidents at the design stage, and implement the accident prevention applications early in the design process. Because the construction sector is hasty and fast, pre-construction executions have always been perceived as a waste of time, and the issue of prevention through design, which is the subject of this study, also takes place in the pre-construction stage. Due to the fact that the work related to the health and safety of the workers takes time and creates financial requirements, it is sometimes perceived as unnecessary by employers. Particularly, small-scale construction companies, make investments on safety only to protect themselves from legal sanctions. In order to identify the awareness of safety by design among the stakeholders in the sector, the data required for this study were collected through a questionnaire. The results of this study show that although the sector awareness on safety by design has emerged, there is still a huge gap in terms of implementation. It will be possible to fill this gap by increasing the awareness of the designers (architects, civil engineers) and increasing the legal supervision and penal sanctions.	safety by design, safe design, safety through design, occupational accidents, construction sector
648	Application of reverse engineering approach on a damaged mechanical part	Reverse engineering methods are important for remodeling or measuring damaged or non-damaged parts. Reverse engineering also enables the design of complex components, reducing actual product production time and prototype production time. With this method, damaged gear wheels can be modeled in a short time due to the regular geometry and symmetrical properties of the teeth and it is real models can be produced. In this study, the damaged motor cam gear was scanned with a three dimensional (3D) scanner and a mesh model was formed. Then, solid model of part was created and genuine prototype was produced with 3D printer. The deviations of geometric dimensions between the mesh model and the solid model were analyzed and the levels of convergence were determined. The three-dimensional prototyping method provides great convenience for the designer due to it gives quick feedback in product development process. At the end of the study, geometric values between solid model and prototype model were compared and deviations from actual value were determined.	Deviation Analysis, Reverse Engineering, 3D Prototyping, 3D Scanner
650	Band-stop filter design based on split ring resonators loaded on the microstrip transmission line for GSM-900 and 2.4 GHz ISM band	Split-ring resonator is a popular research topic in literature. As known, it may be used in the design of electromagnetic metamaterials. Additionally, these structures can be preferred in microwave filter devices. In this study, a band-stop filter was designed for GSM-900 and 2.4 GHz ISM band by using split-ring resonators. Two split-ring arrays (sizes of one of these arrays were larger than the other) were loaded on the transmission line and each array consisted of four identical rings. Thus, a dual-band pass filter was obtained and this filter covered the frequency of 0.91 (GSM) and 2.43 (ISM) GHz. Then, this proposed design was fabricated and measured. According to the measurement results, the fabricated structure operated at 0.93 GHz and 2.47. The experimental results were consistent with the simulation results. As a result, thanks to the proposed structure, two frequencies can be stopped at the same time. There is no need to design a different filter structure for each frequency.	Band Stop Filter, Electromagnetic Metamaterial, Microstrip Transmission Line, Split Ring Resonator, SRR
652	Evaluation of biodiesel produced from tea seed oil in terms of fatty acid components	Factors such as increased energy demand, environmental pollution, energy security and ensuring energy sustainability have accelerated the search for alternative energy. The interest in renewable energy sources has increased with the decrease of oil, oil crises and the increase of environmental awareness. Biodiesel is an alternative energy source that is renewable with chemical methods from vegetable and animal oils. It does not cause CO? release and greenhouse effect compared to petro diesel. It is an environmentally friendly fuel. The tea seeds used in this study have been selected as an alternative from the idle tea seed for biodiesel production without harming the cooking oil stock in Turkey, which is an agricultural country where tea growing and tea consumption is increasing. Biodiesel production was investigated with the transesterification method, which is a method that reduces the production cost and viscosity of the oil obtained from tea seeds by using less chemicals to bring the idle tea seeds to the economy in Turkey and in the world.	Biodiesel, Tea seed oil, Transesterification
668	Hydrodistillation of Nigella Sativa Seed and Analysis of Thymoquinone with HPLC and GC-MS	N. sativa seeds, commonly known as black seeds, are for headaches in traditional medicine by many Asian, Middle Eastern and Far Eastern countries. It is used to treat cough, abdominal pain, diarrhea, asthma, rheumatism and other diseases. The seeds contain both fixed and essential oils, proteins, alkaloids and saponin. Much of the biological activity of the seeds has been shown to be due to thymoquinone, the major component of the essential oil, but which is also present in the fixed oil. The essential oil of black cumin seeds, Nigella sativa L., was tested for a possible antioxidant activity. In this study, we measured the amount of thymoquinone compound in distilled water taken from aromatic water. The proportion of thymoquinone passing into the aromatic water show that it is necessary to consume the correct amount of water and essential oil, which is significantly measurable by GC MS and HPLC. Thymoquinone was dedected 790 ppm in aromatic water and 45.78% in essential oil. Sufficient analytical work was performed with this method and the results were shown.	Nigella Sativa, GC-MS, Hydrodistillation, Thymoquinone, HPLC, Essential oil
717	A Benchmark Study for Phase Transformation of Shape Memory Alloy Based Split Ring Resonator Structure Under a Heating and Cooling Thermal Cycle	In this benchmark study, the integration of shape memory alloy thin film on to a split ring resonator is investigated. Split ring resonators are artificially produced structures which are used to generate magnetic response. One of the applications that can be met in the literature is the solar panel ones where they are benefitted for the electric generation from the resonance of it. Unfortunately, this application is very sensitive to the shape, geometry and dimensions which can be affected from ambient conditions easily. At this particular stage, to compensate the dimensional inconsistencies by shape memory alloy thin film is chosen in an ongoing project. Due to the nature of the shape memory alloy, not only the material properties but also the geometry of the structure can also change. By taking the advantage of this unique feature, the applicability of coupling shape memory alloy thin film by split ring resonator is investigated. And as an initial step of this research, the phase transformation of shape memory alloy thin film is investigated with regard to varying ambient conditions which are simulated by the change of convection conditions and exposure time. The temperature evolution of two significant point is tracked under these conditions and furthermore the change of martensite volume fraction is examined which will enlighten the path for the further steps on this investigation.	Shape memory alloy, split ring resonator, phase transformation, volume fraction
722	ASSESSMENT OF ENERGY PERFORMANCE AND THERMAL BEHAVIOR OF A SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING	This study provides a comprehensive analysis on the impacts of passive and active design strategies with regard to energy efficiency and thermal comfort of a building in three different climate conditions, over a case study. A single-family building has been simulated to determine energy consumption and internal thermal comfort based on static (ISO 7730:2005) and adaptive thermal comfort (EN 15251:2007) criteria. A serious of simulations were conducted to optimize the building envelope by using Trnsys 17. The study carried out the results of different design options by the implementation of varied thermal mass, natural ventilation, shading, plant system and heat exchanger options for Lystrup, Paris and Rome climates. The results of simulations point out that a single building strategy without a promoter energy-driven strategy, is not enough to obtain an energy efficient building.	: Thermal Comfort, Building Envelope, Low-energy Residential Building
750	Enthalpy of Formation Modeling Using Third Order Group Contribution Technics and Calculation by DFT Method.	Recently,with the development of calculators and numerical tools, quantum computationsto explore the electronic, structural and dynamic properties of matter withoutresorting to experimental knowledge have seen increasing development. Thus, itis possible to perform ab-initio calculations with increasing precision and forincreasingly larger systems. In the scientific literature, papers usingab-initio quantum computation for the prediction of formation enthalpies ismore and more numerous. The aim of this paper is to develop a theoreticalmethod to calculate standard enthalpy of formation in gas stat for organiccompounds using group contribution technics (third-order group contributionmethod). For the establishment of this method, 750 molecules are used. Inparallel with group contribution methods, this paper presents another approachto calculate gas-state formation enthalpies based on DFT method. Thecalculation involved 30 molecules with at least one ring from C3 to C13.Finally, DFT and group contribution results are compared.	"Group contribution method; DFT; Organic compound; B3lyp"
754	Effects of Aluminium Dross and Iron Filings Particulates on the Mechanical Properties of Hybrid Thermoplastic (Nylon) Matrix Composites	Utilisation of waste as filler in the production of polymer matrix composites for properties enhancement and solving the menace of environmental pollution has been explored in this study. 5 – 25 wt. % of 300 g of ground aluminium dross and iron filings with an average particles size of 50 µm were used to reinforce thermoplastic (nylon) matrix by casting at room temperature (270 C). Microstructural, water absorption, tensile strength, modulus of elasticity, hardness and impact energy tests were carried out on the developed samples. The microstructure of the samples revealed a uniform distribution of the reinforcements within the thermoplastic matrix with different morphology of the phases in the composites. The results showed that the hybrid composite exhibited the lowest water absorption of 0.23 %. It also exhibited the highest tensile strength and Brinell hardness number (BHN) of 1.83 MPa and 12.84 BHN respectively at 15 wt. % filler addition. The strong adhesion/bonding between the reinforcing particulates and the thermoplastic (nylon) matrix contributed to the reduction in the water absorption and enhancement of the tensile strength and hardness of the composites. The decrease in the mechanical properties of the composites could be due to poor dispersion of the particulates in the matrix resulting to weak bonding/adhesion of particulates to the matrix. The results indicated that these composites have potential for engineering applications and their development will go a long way in reducing/mitigating environmental pollution.	Polymer composites, thermoplastic (nylon) matrix, aluminium dross, iron filings, mechanical Properties
755	THE USE OF ELECTROLESS COATING IN THE PRODUCTION OF HIGH CERAMIC-TO-METAL RATIO COMPOSITES USING WC POWDER	In this study, the production of high ceramic-to-metal ratio composite using tungsten carbide (WC) powders plated with Nickel (Ni) by electroless method was attempted by means of transient liquid phase sintering. Microstructural characterization in specimens before and after sintering process have been carried out using Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) and DTA-TG and XRD techniques and microhardness measurements for various processing conditions. Results showed that WC powders can be successfully Ni plated by electroless plating method and optimal condition for the production of high ceramic-to-metal ratio composite is found to be 1150 ?C in both air and Ar protected furnace conditions.	Electroless Nickel Plating, Composite Materials, Sintering
756	THE GLOBAL AND LOCAL ROBUSTNESS ANALYSIS IN GEODETIC NETWORKS	The geodetic networks should be able to detect the possible earth crust movements caused by active tectonic movements in Turkey. Geodetic networks should also be able to determine the crust movements accurately as well as provide precision and reliability requests. The capacity of geodetic networks to determine the crustal movements can be determined by sensitivity analysis. Robustness analysis consists of strengthening internal reliability analysis with strain techniques. Robustness is defined as the deformation strength induced by the maximum undetectable errors with the internal reliability analysis. The robustness of a geodetic network is determined by the global initial condition, which aims at minimizing the total displacement value in the network. In this study, the local initial condition that aims to minimize the total displacement value at the uniform polyhedron, which consists of observations from each station points. The displacement values obtained according to the local and the global initial conditions are compared with threshold values. The results have also been interpreted.	Sensitivity, Strain, Reliability, Geodetic Networks, Robustness, Robustness
757	INTERPRETING DEFORMATION RESULTS OF GEODETIC NETWORK POINTS USING THE STRAIN MODELS BASED ON DIFFERENT ESTIMATION METHODS	"Geodetic Networks designed as Deformation Networks or Continuous Networks are observed in different epochs/ sessions and evaluated as a function of time. Those can be design as global GNSS networks for aim monitoring active tectonic movements or as regional densification geodetic and deformation networks for monitoring local earthquakes and surface movements. The areas covered geodetic networks are assumed as any surface on ellipsoid or sphere. Characteristics of surfaces are analyzed with Geometric Strain Models using deformation data on surface points. In this case, effect rates on geodetic network area are determined from local surface movements or regional active earthquakes and interpreted as experimental. On the other hand, undetermined outliers by model hypothesis test affect coordinate unknowns separately. Outliers cause deformations in certain magnitude on networks points. Therefore, network points strain in different rates and directions. Query of maximum affects caused by these strain rates is a referenced reliability method called ""Robustness Analysis in Geodetic Networks”. Mentioned strain rates are modelled by various estimation methods. Thus, deformation results could be interpreted together by the obtained strain components and deformation vector. In this paper, possible strain components belonging to network points are determined with methods of L1 Norm, Least Median Squares (LMS) and Least Squares Estimation (LSE). These estimation methods are tested on KOUSAGA (Kocaeli University Permanent GPS Network). Strain components are estimated by use polyhedrons covered by network points. Obtained results are compared and analyzed according to weakness and strengths of proposed estimation methods."	Deformation, Strain, Estimation Methods, KOUSAGA
758	AN IOT ARCHITECTURE FOR FACILITATING INTEGRATION OF GEOINFORMATION	Background: GeoInformation, is very valuable for a range of fields ranging from location based services and navigation to smart cities and homes. On the other hand today many fields benefit from Internet of Things (IoT) implementations, where the machine-to-machine and machine-to-human transmission of GeoInformation frequently occurs. This transmission usually occurs in multi-source/multi-target and multiplatform IoT environments. Problem Statement: In many cases real-time GeoInformation stays in its own island of automation, and thus its real value cannot be uncovered. This happens mainly due to inefficiencies and problems that occur in the storage, sharing and exchange of real-time GeoInformation as a result of multi-source/multi-target and multi-platform nature of the IoT architectures. Research Approach: Integration appears as a critical paradigm which should be focused in order to store, manage and transfer of GeoInformation efficiently in these complex environments. In this context, the focus of the study was to test the applicability of different technologies and integration methods for acquisition, transmission and visualisation of multi-source GeoInformation through implementing an IoT Integration Testbed Architecture which is utilizing low-cost hardware (to acquire information), graph databases(to store information) and standard IoT protocols (to exchange information). The implementation explained in this paper covers acquisition of real time GeoInformation from a set of real and virtual sensors, storage of this GeoInformation in Graph Databases, exchange of information through two different communication models (request/response and publish/subscribe) based on standard IoT protocols, and visualization of information by web pages, web mapping services and using a GIS software. Results: The implementation results demonstrated a proof-ofconcept on how multi-source GeoInformation acquired from different type of IoT nodes can be integrated, stored and visualised on different platforms by utilising a standard IoT communication paradigms and multiple communication models.	IoT, GeoInformation, Integration, Graph Database, Arduino, Raspberry Pi, REST
759	PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT OF IGS COMBINED/JPL INDIVIDUAL RAPID AND ULTRA-RAPID PRODUCTS: CONSIDERATION OF PRECISE POINT POSITIONING TECHNIQUE	Satellite orbit and clock products are the key elements for precise point positioning (PPP). Contrary to the relative technique, errors in satellite orbit and clock directly lump to the station coordinates for PPP technique. Currently final, rapid and ultra-rapid (observed-half and predicted-half) satellite products have been made freely available over the internet mainly for Global Positioning Service (GPS) satellites. Final and rapid products are used for post-processing applications. For real-time and near real-time applications, ultra-rapid products with predicted and observed parts can be used. There are several analysis centers that provide the satellite orbit and clock products. In this paper, accuracy and precision of GPS rapid and ultra-rapid satellite orbit and clock products from two services, International Global Navigation Satellite Service (IGS) and Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), were investigated in the position domain of PPP technique while the final products of these services were taken as the true value. Ten IGS stations around the world were chosen for PPP processes. 24-12-8-4-2 hours of non-overlapping arc-lengths of GPS observations in 31 consecutive days (DOY 1-31 of 2018) were processed for each station. The results confirm that the shorter the arc-lengths, the larger the relative error of rapid and ultra-rapid products due to the similar Gaussian distribution pattern of the orbit errors with respect to the final products. In terms of consistency between the products, Root-Mean-Square-Errors (RMSE) of final-rapid differences of IGS and JPL are at the millimeter level. Millimeter level accuracy can be obtained using rapid and ultra-rapid products for JPL whereas only rapid products of IGS maintain millimeter accuracy with respect to the final products.	Final orbits and clocks, GPS, IGS, JPL, Rapid and Ultra-Rapid products
760	The Impact of Superconducting Cables in Power Transmission Systems- a Case Study in Turkey	Power systems encounter multiple problems duringplanning, operating and analyzing processes. Superconducting technologies canbe the solution for some of these problems. In this study usage ofsuperconducting cables in the Turkey transmission system are simulated to seethe affects. One base and two different cases are discussed. Power flowanalysis and voltage stability analysis are done for the real Turkish 22 bussystem. The voltage stability is analyzed by using the loading factor. Theresults show the decrease in losses and the increase of the system’s capacity.The amount of CO2 emission is also presented. This study is a roughanalyze but a precursor for further studies which will also contain aneconomical analyze considering the cooling costs and new topology of system.	Superconducting filaments and wires, Load flow, Power system stability
761	INVESTIGATION OF BLACK SEA MEAN SEA LEVEL VARIABILITY BY SINGULAR SPECTRUM ANALYSIS	The mean sea level has been continuously increasing since the end of the 19th century and will continue to increase in the 21st century. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) states that the sea level will rise by 40-60 cm until 2100. This situation will lead to social and economic problems, especially in coastal areas. For this reason, studies on sea level determination have great importance in our country. In this paper, we used the singular spectrum analysis (SSA) to investigate mean sea level variability along the coasts of the Black Sea, which is an intercontinental inland sea. This study aimed to determine the trend in sea level change along the coasts of the Black Sea over time. The mean sea level data from 10 tide gauge stations (Amasra, Batumi, Bourgas, Constantza, Igneada, Poti, Sevastapol, Trabzon II, Tuapse and Varna) are analyzed in this study. The mean sea level data were obtained from the Permanent Service for Mean Sea Level (PSMSL). SSA was applied to the mean sea level observations at tide gauges stations, and the results were interpreted. According to the analysis results, there are increasing trends at the Batumi, Poti, Tuapse, Constantza, Sevastopol and Varna stations. The obtained trend of Bourgas station is not significant. There is The results of the Amasra, Igneada and Trabzon II tide gauge stations were inadequate in interpreting any change. There were no trends at these stations. Close eigenvalues were computed from the mean sea level at the tide gauge stations. This situation shows that there is a dominant seasonal component in the time series.	Black Sea, Mean Sea Level, Tide Gauge, Singular Spectrum Analysis
762	INVESTIGATION OF THE CENTER COORDINATES OF A CIRCLE WITH UNKNOWN RADIUS USING POLAR MEASUREMENTS	Circular pools or buildings may be encountered in production of maps for making development plans, in the first facility cadaster and on land. Geodetic measurements may be made on at least three different points of the circleshaped pool or building to obtain positions in a coordinate system of measurement points with a geodetic ground-based electronic tachometer after connection to another polygon. It is possible to get a circle from these three points where the coordinates can be calculated, the coordinates of the center of the circle and the radius of the circle with the help of drawing programs (Netcad, Carto CAD, GEOCAD ...). In drawing programs related to cartography, the details of passing the circle from three points, the coordinates of the center of the circle and the radius of the circle cannot be accessed because the details are kept proprietary by software companies. We have been curious about how the coordinates of the center of the circle or the radius of the circle in question are calculated by using the subprograms on a computer. Apart from the information hidden by software companies, two studies which are indirectly close to the subject mentioned in the application have been identified with respect to the solution of the problem on the computer. However, it was found that these studies did not directly illuminate our research topic, so, this issue should be investigated. This study presents theoretical solutions for the topic, makes numerical implementations and provides findings and interpretations.	Circle Center Coordinate Calculation, Radius Calculation, Polar Coordinates, Coordinates Calculation, Polar Measurements, Circle Center Coordinate Calculation, Radius Calculation
764	THE ERODIBILITY FACTOR IN AGRICULTURAL LANDS OF GAZIANTEP, TURKEY	"Soil erosion is the most important land degradation worldwide. Turkish soils are highly threatened by erosion mainly due to natural physical-geographic conditions as well as historic and current land-use. A number of soil erosion studies have been per-formed for different parts of Turkey; however, no erodibility potential-related data is available for Gaziantep province. In this study we evaluate the susceptibility of agricul-tural land in Gaziantep province to erosion (erodibility potential) by the use of the erodibility factor K on the basis of the soil texture, soil organic matter (SOM) content, soil aggregation and water permeability. Moreover, the nutrient supply of soils was in-vestigated in order to further elucidate the impact of soil erosion on soil fertility. The study revealed that all investigated soils had to be categorized as threatened by erosion due to a high to extremely high erodibility potential, with K-factors ranging between 0.33 and 0.79. Further K-factor was positively correlation to SOM as well as aggregate stability (?GMD) mainly due to grain-size compositions. According to these results, there is a generally high risk of erosion for the investigated soils and future erosion events might also be followed by a measurable loss of nutrients and subsequently loss of soil fertility. As a major outcome of the present survey, a regional soil protection concept should be developed and implemented for Gaziantep region, wherein the study results provide a basis for information sessions with regard to erosion."	aggregate stability, soil erodibility, soil nutrients
777	Artificial Neural Network Modeling of The Removal of Cr (VI) on by Polymeric Calix[6]arene in aqueous solutions	The artificial neural network-based model wasdeveloped to predict the sorption capacity and removal efficiency of calixarenefor Cr(VI) in aqueous solutions. The input variables were initial concentrationof Cr(VI), adsorbent dosage, contact time, and pH, while the sorption capacityand the removal efficiency were considered as output. They have been used forthe training and simulation of the network in the current work. The trainingresults were tested using the input data (simulated data) that were not shownto the network. According to the indicator, the optimum and most reliable modelwas found based on the test results.	Artificial Neural Network, Modeling, Sorption, Removal Efficiency, Sorption Capacity
781	The Effects of TIG Welding Rod Compositions on Phase Distributions and Corrosion Properties of Dissimilar 304L and 420 Stainless Steel Welds	"304L austenitic and 420 martensitic stainlesssteels are demanded in wide range of industries. 304L alloy exhibits goodresistance to oxidizing medias up to 760°C and they also maintain superiorimpact properties at cryogenic temperatures while 420 alloy provides thestrength values close to tool steels in with satisfactory corrosion propertiesin ambient atmospheres. In this work; 420 plate is TIG (Tungsten InertGas) welded with 304L plate with both thicknesses of 3 mm. Welding operation isapplied by two passes under pure argon gas also with shielding the weld root. 3types of TIG welding rods; ER312, ER316L and ER2209 are used in TIG welding forensuring 3 different weld metal compositions. The effects of TIG welding rodtype on weld metal phase ratios with microstructural and corrosion propertiesare investigated. Microstructural inspections and corrosion (weight loss) testsare applied to all joints after welding operations. The sample joined by ER312 TIG rod transformed the weld metal intodendritic microstructure and the sample joined by ER2209 TIG rod resulted inglobular type of weld metal microstructure. The specimen that welded by ER316Ltype TIG welding rod resulted in the best corrosion test values among allwelded samples."	420 and 304L stainless steels, TIG welding, phase analysis, corrosion of stainless steels
783	Sintering and Characterization of SiC Reinforced Ni Powders in Microwave Furnace	SiC reinforced nickel matrix composites,microwave at different temperatures It is produced by sintering in oven. Nickeldeposition on SiC powders was achieved by using electroless nickel platingtechnique. It is sintered at temperaturesbetween 500°C, 600 °C, 700°C, 800°C and 900°C under Ar atmosphere. XRD, SEM(Scanning Electron Microscope), pressure test and hardness measurements wereused to characterize the properties of sintered samples in microwave furnace. Theexperimental results, maximum compressive strength (?max) and hardness (HV)were carried out at 800 °C. Microwavesintering of Ni-coated SiC powders without electric current can be a promisingtechnique for producing ceramic-reinforced nickel composites.	Microwave sintering, Powder metallurgy, Composites, Nickel plating
785	Assessment of Mechanical and Thermal Properties of Juniperus Drupacea/Epoxy Biocomposite	"This paper presentsexperimental data using estimated approach to determine some mechanicalproperties of epoxy matrix based composites. For this reason, the epoxy matrix wascombined with the powdered materials obtained from different parts of thejuniperus drupacea seeds. In order to obtain a homogeneous structure ultrasonicmixing technique was preferred. The Taguchi method is an alternative way tocharacterize complex composite structures, to come from above the problems andto investigate the effects of test parameters-factors by performing a fewexperiments. In the study, the L9 Taguchi orthogonal array has been preferred.Based on some production conditions; bio-reinforcement material has lowered theaverage hardness value to 4.22 and formed a more soft structure in addition toimproving the tensile strength value by 46% compared to the neat sample.Parametric study showed that; the most important parameter affecting hardnessand tensile strength are the mixing time and reinforcement ratio, respectively."	Analysis of Variance, Juniperus Drupacea, Mechanical Properties, Taguchi Method, Thermal Properties
787	PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS OF A MEDIUM TEMPERATURE SOLAR CONCENTRATOR FOR DOMESTIC WATER HEATING	"In the last decade, solar energy technologies are gaining attention due to their potential for reducing environmental emissions and enhancing sustainability in residential and industrial applications. In this regard, solar collector systems are widely used for hot water production in buildings. Currently, flat plate collectors are mostly used collector type; however, their efficiency dramatically drops in winter period when the hot water demand is at its peak. Consequently, present study is concerned with the design and development of a parabolic dish collector as an alternative to flat plate collectors. The proposed collector consists of a parabolic dish, a receiver made up of a black painted spiral coil tube heat exchanger and a glass glazing. In the system, a 50 L water tank is also used and the water is circulated between the collector and the water tank by employing a water pump. System is tested on the coldest days of the year (10-13 December 2018) and highest water temperature of 42 ? is achieved. The average and maximum instantaneous thermal efficiencies of collector were obtained as 48% and 76% respectively."	SOLAR ENERGY, PARABOLİC DISH, WATER HEATING, THERMAL ENERGY ANALYSIS, EFFICIENCY
799	Composition and Distribution of Benthic Diatoms in Different Habitats of Burdur River Basin	"Diatoms constitute an essential component for biomonitoring studies to determine the ecologicalquality of waterbodies. In this study, benthic diatoms of Burdur River Basin were investigated as aconsequence of a project on river basin management plan. This is the first detailed taxonomical studyof diatoms taken from 13 streams, 4 lakes and 6 reservoirs of Burdur River Basin and a total of 223 taxahave been observed. Among genera, Navicula Bory (27) and Nitzschia Hassal (27) were representedwith the highest numbers of taxa and followed by Gomphonema Agardh with a total of 22 species.Navicula antonii Lange-Bertalot and Nitzschia palea var. debilis (Kützing) Grunow had the highestrelative abundance with 17.1% and 15.5% respectively. As a closed basin, salinity varied greatly fromfresh to saline water between the sampling stations and diatom composition contained species with adifferent tolerance level. Navicula antonii and Nitzschia frustulum (Kützing) Grunow observed in allhabitats indicating their euryhaline characters; however Navicula digitoconvergens was only detectedin saline Acıgöl lake with a high relative abundance (38%) in autumn. Other two dominant specieswere Halamphora coffeiformis (Kützing) Levkov and Navicula cincta (Ehrenberg) Ralfs in Acıgöl lakeshowing their tolerance to high salt content as a brackish species. According to first results, 11 specieswere new records for Turkish diatom flora. The high biodiversity of diatoms revealed the presence ofdifferent habitat characteristics within the basin. These results are an important contribution of Turkishdiatom flora and could be useful for monitoring specific areas like Burdur River Basin."	Burdur River Basin, diatoms, phytobenthos, salinity tolerance
800	Effects of Irrigation and Field Management Practices within Water Resources Systems	"Worldpopulation is prospected to increase to 9.8 billion people in 2050 and globalfood and water demands can also be presumed to rise concurrently. Regardingthese future demands and considering climate change and depletion in watersources; new approaches, management strategies, and models are needed. In thisstudy, the AquaCrop model, which may simplify the complexities of thereal-system assessments, is used as an analytical tool to predict the effectsof different management practices within winter wheat, spring wheat, winterbarley, and maize in a specific location (middle Guadiana sub-catchment,Spain). The primary drivers from the model were determined as actualevapotranspiration (ETa), yield (Y), and water productivity (WP). Modelruns were executed within three different management strategies; which are irrigationtechnologies, irrigation strategies, and mulching practices. Thereafter, theyield gaps (Yg) and water productivity gap (WPg) were analyzed,and water scarcity/shortage degrees were compared. The results of this studyshowed that the AquaCrop model is a sophisticated model to estimate ETa,Y, and WP parameters. Yield productions in deficit irrigation were mostly morethan supplementary irrigation. Full irrigation showed the highest yield withinnon-limited water conditions; however, some adverse effects of the fullirrigation strategy such as salinity should not be ignored. Mulching practices positivelyaffected the ETa reduction. Full irrigation and no mulching scenarioshowed the worst impacts on the water resources system. Supplementaryirrigation and synthetic mulching practices depicted the least surface waterresource deterioration. Deficit irrigation and synthetic mulching practicesresulted in remarkable water savings with fewer yield losses compared to thescenario with the highest yield production levels."	AquaCrop model, management practice, water productivity, yield gap
802	Parameter Selection for Chemical Monitoring of Sediment in Lake Beysehir	Sediment plays acrucial role in water quality. Hydrophobic substances that cannot dissolve inwater have potential to accumulate in sediment. Thus, by conducting only waterquality monitoring, it is impossible to detect these substances. Moreover, by sedimentmonitoring, the information about historic contamination can be gained byperforming vertical sampling in sediment.In this study, it isaimed to select the parameters that should be monitored in sediment in BeysehirLake. For this purpose, specific pollutants that can originate aroundindustries of Beysehir Lake is selected. Also, pesticides specific to plantsthat cultivated in Konya Basin is identified. Between these pollutants the onesthat have the tendency to accumulate in sediment are specified. Priority substancesare also studied and list of chemicals that should be monitored in sediment isdetermined.	Sediment, Chemical Monitoring, Octanol-Water Partition Coefficient, Water Framework Directive
805	Early fault prediction of a wind turbine using a novel ANN training algorithm based on ant colony optimization	The technologicaldevelopments in wind energy field have reduced the investment and the operationcosts. For this reason, wind farms have become more popular around the world.Increasing the share of wind energy in the market has led to the need forsecure, inexpensive, and effective monitoring and control approaches. In thepresent work, various monitoring and control tools, which are cheap and easy toimplement in wind farms using existing system data are proposed. The primarypurpose of this study is to offer a new methodology, i.e. an artificial neuralnetwork (ANN) design with a novel training algorithm called Antrain ANN, inorder to explore the early fault detection in a wind turbine. Our case problemis the fault detection for a wind turbine. For this issue, we used real dataconsisting of 873 samples with 12 inputs and one output. The models used in thework try to forecast fault occurrence before 10 minutes it happens. The proposed Antrain ANN algorithm iscompared with Quick Propagation, Conjugate Gradient Descent, Quasi-Newton,Limited Memory Quasi-Newton, Online Backpropagation, and Batch Back Propagationalgorithms, respectively. The results have shown that the proposed novelapproach has better results in the correct classification rates than otheralgorithms except the Quasi-Newton and Limited Memory Quasi-Newton ones.	Ant colony algorithm, Artificial neural networks, Fault detection, Wind energy, Wind turbine
806	Synthesis and Characterization of Oleic Acid Coated Magnetic Nanoparticles for Hyperthermia Applications	"In this study, we aimed to synthesize stable dispersions of iron oxide nanoparticles (IONs) coated with different amounts of oleic acid (OA) suitable for magnetic nano hyperthermia applications. For this purpose, bare and different amounts of oleic acid (0.2%, 0.5% and 1.0%, v/v) coated IONs were prepared by co-precipitation method. Then, their structures, morphologies, magnetic properties and heating abilities were characterized by using suitable techniques. IONs+1.0%OA nanoparticles showed low agglomeration with high dispersion capacity. Moreover, 1.0% OA coating showed the highest heating ability with a temperature increase of (25.2 °C) compared to IONs+OA (0.2%, 16.4 °C; 0.5%, 19 °C), but similar with bare IONs (26.7 °C). The specific absorption rate (SAR) values of bare IONs and IONs+OA (0.2%, 0.5%, 1.0% v/v) were found as 39.50, 34.81, 23.36 and 45.98 W/g, respectively. Our results showed that the comparable hyperthermia effect of IONs+1.0%OA with bare IONs was attributable to their uniform dispersion performance along with higher SAR values. We concluded that the dispersion of hydrophobic IONs+OA in an aqueous medium is one of the critical requirements for increasing temperature in magnetic nano hyperthermia applications."	Iron oxide nanoparticles, magnetic hyperthermia, oleic acid coated, co precipitation
809	Using of Quinoa Based Film to Extend the Shelf Life of Rainbow Trout Fillets under Cold Storage (4±1°C) Condition	In this study, thestructural features (thickness and light transmittance) of edible films thatobtained from quinoa starch were analyzed, and the films were applied torainbow trout fillets. These fillets were classified under two different groupswithout quinoa starch film (control) and coated with quinoa starch film(QSBF).Thereafter, these fillets were storage in the refrigerator at(4±1°C) for 12 days. Analyzes were performed on days 0, 3, 9, and 12during storage to detect chemical and microbial changes in both groups. Thefilm thickness was 0.195 ± 0.010 mm, and the light transmittance values werebetween 10–37%. At the end of storage, the highest values of chemical analysiswere found in the control group 20.35±0.49 mg/100g in (TVB-N), 3.87±0.10 µmolMA/kg in (TBARS) and 6.27±0.00 in (pH), respectively. The highest values ofmicrobial analysis were found in the control group 5.35±0.22 log cfu/g in(TAMB), 3.32±0.48 log cfu/g in (LAB), Pseudomonas 5.72±0.28 log cfu/g and Enterobacteriaceae 4.38±0.68 log cfu/gin the control group respectively, although (TPC) was found 6.84±0.11 log cfu/gin the QSBF group. The results of chemical and microbial analysis showed thatstatistical difference between control and treatment groups was significant(p<0.05). Quinoa starch-based biofilms (QSBF) had a chemically andmicrobiologically protective effect on trout fillets that were stored. Furtherstudies are needed to optimize the use of (QSBF) as microbiological andchemical barriers for fish fillet packaging.	Quinoa, Biofilm, Trout, Fillet, Shelf life
820	Classification of The Monolithic Columns Produced in Troad and Mysia Region Ancient Granite Quarries in Northwestern Anatolia via Soft Decision-Making	Ayand Tolun [An Archaeometric Approach on the Distribution of Troadic GraniteColumns in the Western Anatolian Coasts. Journal of Archaeology & Art, 156, 2017, 119-130 (In Turkish)] haveanalysed the distribution of the monolithic columns produced in the ancientgranite quarries, located in Troad Region and Mysia Region in NorthwesternAnatolia, by archaeometric analyses. Moreover, we have achieved some results byinterpreting the prominent data obtained therein. In this study, we propose a novelsoft decision-making method, i.e. Monolithic Columns Classification Method(MCCM), constructed via fuzzy parameterized fuzzy soft matrices (fpfs-matrices)and Prevalence Effect Method (PEM). MCCM provides an outcome by interpretingall the results of the analyses mentioned above. We then apply the method tothe problem of monolithic columns classification. Finally, we discuss the needfor further research.	Ancient granite quarries, classification, fpfs-matrices, monolithic columns, soft decision-making
821	The Antimicrobial Activity of Enteromorpha sp. Methanolic Extract and Gelatin Film Solution Against on Some Pathogens	"Pathogenic microorganisms have been the primary cause offoodborne disease and food poisoning throughout the world for years. The use ofnatural antimicrobial agents in food coating has been effective in regulatingthe adverse effects of pathogens in food. Increasing antimicrobial efficacy inthese coatings is one of the current issues of the food industry. In thepresent study, the antimicrobial properties of Enteromorpha sp., which is a marine algae, and gelatin filmsolution incorporated with Enteromorphasp. methanol extract have been investigated. The contents of Enteromorpha sp. methanol extract weredetermined by Gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GCMS). The most importantcomponents in the extract were methyl palmitoleate, neophytadiene, phytol,methyl linolenate and methyl stearate. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC;the lowest concentration of test material which results in 99.9% inhibition ofgrowth) of Enteromorpha sp. on Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus and Candidaalbicans were found to be between 10.79 mg/mL and 26.86 mg/mL byspectrophotometric microdilution technique. The antimicrobial effect ofgelatin- Enteromorpha sp. methanolicextract film solution against the same pathogens was determined by discdiffusion method. The inhibition zone of gelatin- Enteromorpha sp. film solution was reported between 0.1 and 5.1 mmagainst pathogens. After a 24-h incubation, the effectiveness of the filmsolution was lower (1.3 mm) when compared to the extract on E. coli (5.1 mm). As a result, thisstudy clearly showed that Enteromorphasp. could be used as antimicrobial food coating agent, especially, in E. coli struggle."	Enteromorpha sp., Coating film solution, Antimicrobial agent
822	A Data Classification Method in Machine Learning Based on Normalised Hamming Pseudo-Similarity of Fuzzy Parameterized Fuzzy Soft Matrices	In this study, wepropose a classification method based on normalised Hamming pseudo-similarityof fuzzy parameterized fuzzy soft matrices (fpfs-matrices). We thencompare the proposed method with Fuzzy Soft Set Classifier (FSSC), FussCyier,Fuzzy Soft Set Classification Using Hamming Distance (HDFSSC), and Fuzzyk-Nearest Neighbor (Fuzzy kNN) in terms of the performance criterions(accuracy, precision, recall, and F-measure) and running time by using fourmedical data sets in the UCI machine learning repository. The results show thatthe proposed method performs better than FSSC, FussCyier, HDFSSC, and Fuzzy kNNfor “Breast Cancer Wisconsin (Diagnostic)”, “Immunotherapy”, “Pima IndianDiabetes”, and “Statlog Heart”.	Fuzzy Sets, Soft Sets, fpfs-Matrices, Similarity Measure, Data Classification
830	Performance analysis of present cup anemometers	The cup anemometer, wind speed sensor developed by T.R. Robinson in the19th century, remains today as the best option in relation toimportant scientific and economic sectors such as the meteorology sector or thewind energy sector. Despite the great advances reached by new technologies assonic anemometry, LIDAR or SODAR, the cup anemometer is the most demanded windspeed sensor thanks to its balance between the accuracy, reliability, enduranceand the cost. In the present paper, the work carried out in relation to thisinstrument at the IDR/UPM Institute is briefly summarized, and then the resultsfrom the last research testing campaigns are included. The output signal of thefirst class cup anemometers such as Thies CLIMA First Class, Thies CLIMA4.3350, and Vector Instruments is analyzed to obtain insights on the instrumentaccuracy. It is found that three accelerations of the rotor are converted intoa pulsed output signals, leading to some error if that is not taken intoaccount. Besides, the way the output signal is registered in order to correlatethe output frequency with the wind speed has proven to be also a source oferror. Two ways of extracting the output frequency, namely by Counting Pulses (CP),and by using FFT are compared. Results indicate that the wind speed errors are sixtimes larger in the case of using FFT.	Accuracy, Calibration, Cup anemometer, MEASNET, Wind speed sensor
831	ANALYSIS OF FACTORS THAT INFLUENCE RUBBER SEED OIL - BASED BIODIESEL PRODUCTION USING PRINCIPAL COMPONENT ANALYSIS AND KENDALL’S COEFFICIENT OF CONCORDANCE TECHNIQUES	Theinability of oils and hydroelectric sources to meet the ever growing demandexperienced in global energy in recent years has generated a lot of concern.The continuous increase in the demand for energy and the dwindling tendency ofpetroleum resources has steered endless search for alternative renewable andsustainable fuel. This study adopts a novel combination of Principal ComponentAnalysis (PCA) and Kendall’s Coefficient of Concordance (KCC) to analyze somefactors that affect rubber seed oil-based biodiesel production which has beenfound to be a good substitute and most advantageous over petrol diesel becauseof its environmental friendliness. The KCC was used to analyze the data matrixgenerated by thirteen Judges who were requested to rank the thirty-one variablesidentified from relevant literature to influence biodiesel production in descendingorder of importance upon which basis an index of concordance in ranking amongthe judges was computed as W = 0.84. PCA was used to analyze the outcomes ofthe questionnaires crafted with thirty-one of the well-ordered variables,purposively selected, using statistiXL software. The results obtained by KCC providebasic insight into how consistence the Judges were in ranking the variableswhile the results by PCA shows that significant parsimony was achieved infactor reduction from thirty one variables to mere seven factors which representthe principal factors that influence rubber seed oil-based biodieselproduction.	Rubber seed oil, Biodiesel, Principal component analysis, Parsimony
863	Structure Characterization and Luminescence Studies of MgO:Li Calcinated at Different Temperatures via Solution Combustion and Sol-Gel Methods	In thepresent study, lithium (Li) doped magnesium oxide (MgO) samples were preparedusing Solution Combustion Synthesis (SCS) and Sol-Gel (SG) methods. Theirphotoluminescence (PL) and thermoluminescence (TL) behaviors were determinedafter the different calcination temperatures. The aim of this study is toinvestigate the effect of different calcination temperatures on the PL and TLsensitivities of lithium doped MgO (MgO:Li) samples in pellet and powder formsprepared by SCS and SG methods. The structural characterization analysis ofMgO:Li powder and pellets were carried out using X-ray diffraction (XRD) and scanningelectron microscope (SEM) methods. The results of these structure analysisshowed that MgO:Li samples have different crystal properties when changingcalcination temperatures were applied during the preparation of the samples.Luminescence properties of the MgO samples which were synthesized at differentcalcination temperatures were investigated by the Photoluminescence (PL) and TLtechniques. The maximum TL intensity of the samples was obtained at calcinationtemperature of 800 and 1000 oC for the SCS and SG methods, respectively.Uncontrolled chromium impurities were observed in MgO samples by using PLmeasurements. On the PL spectrum, peaks indicating chromium (III) (Cr3+)transmission in the red portion of the spectrum at 672, 698 and 721 nm are clearlyevident. We investigated high dose sensitivity in these samples. This studypresents optimum calcination temperatures in order to obtain maximum PL and TLsensitivity of MgO sample. It is also clear that it will contribute to theliterature that it can be studied as a new dosimetric material.	Thermoluminescence, Photoluminescence, MgO, Calcination
864	Automatic Dough Draw Robot System Design	This robot system was designed to eliminate thehuman factor in the factories where bread production is provided and to enablethe establishment of faster and sterile bread production lines. The working wayof automatic dough drawing robot system will be placed on the conveyor belts onthe machine we have designed the dough ready for baking and the doughs will beloaded into the oven automatically.	dough draw, image processing, robot systems
865	The Effects of Innovative Demountable Furniture on User Preferences	In this study, as an innovative approach, it is aimed to determine effects of demountable furniture on the preferences of residential users in Ankara. Demograhpic information and opinions of users regarding to demountable furniture were carried out with the help of a detailed questionnaire. 243 household users participated in the questionnaire. The obtained findings were evaluated with SPSS program. As a result, 66.7% of the participants prefer demountable furniture due to “easy transportation”, 67.1% stated because of “dismantling and assembly” and 48.1% “assembling in place”. On the other hand, 28.4% of the participants had problems due to the “need for a technician in assembling” of demountable furniture in their houses, 29.2% of them had “wear and tear of furniture pieces during dismantling” and 14% of them had “not being strong and durable” were determined. As a result, the diversification and strengthening of the fasteners used in demountable furniture with an innovative approach will contribute positively to the process.	Furniture, Design, Disassembled, Demountable, Innovation
866	A Study on Determining the Criteria that Parents Consider When Buying Children's Room Furniture	In this study, it was aimed to determine the effects of flexibility and interchangeability characteristics on furniture preferences by the criteria that the participants take into consideration when buying children's room furniture. The general information of the participants and their evaluations on children's room furniture were determined with the help of a detailed questionnaire. A total of 103 parents who participated in the playground of a shopping center in Ankara with their children participated in the survey and the results were evaluated with SPSS program. As a result, it is seen that the participants emphasize ease of use, durability, price suitability and material quality when buying furniture in children's rooms respectively. In addition, it was determined that storeability, partitionability and collectability characteristics were effective in the furniture preferences of the participants.	Children's Room, Furniture Design, Flexibility, Changeability, Innovation
880	Hydrographic study of Shatt Al-Arab estuary in the context of climate change	This paper presents key results (at thefirst time) for the impacts of the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), the IndianOcean Dipole Mode (DMI) and the Southern Pacific Ocean Oscillation (SOI) eventson the hydrographic and climatic parameters at the mid of Shatt Al-Arab estuary(i.e. Basrah city centre) by using correlation analysis and standard ordinarylinear regression as an autoregressive process of order 1. The analysisexamined the discharge, salinity, sea surface water temperature and airtemperature over the period 2005-2014 (i.e. interannual, monthly and seasonaldatasets). The formal regressions have been estimated by using the first-degreeautoregressive AR (1) model, which includes calculations of the GLS-GeneralizedLeast Square Error Minimization regression method, for obtaining more stablesolutions in the context of climate change. The correlation is accounted forusing the standard ordinary bivariate linear regression method. The mainresults indicate that the hydrographic and climatic variables in the study the region experienced general trends of decrease in discharge of 2.0936 (m3/sec),increase in salinity of 0.0071 (‰), increase in air temperature of 0.0178 (?C)and an increase in sea surface temperature of 0.0098 (?C). Significant correlations,as well as prediction equations, were found between discharge and SOI, then,salinity and sea surface temperature with NAO, and finally between airtemperature with NAO/DMI/SOI. The Pardé coefficients reflect the Karuninfluence during spring in the context of climate change.	"Shatt Al-Arab estuary; North Atlantic Oscillation; Dipole Mode; Southern Oscillation; Parametric methods"
882	PAPR reduction performance of bat algorithm in OFDM systems	The progression in technologyrequires improved modulation techniques for wideband digital communicationsystems. Orthogonal frequency division multiplexing is efficacious systems tofulfill high-speed data transmissions needs. However, high peak-to-averagepower ratio (PAPR) is one of the significant limitations on the performance andpower efficiency of OFDM systems. Due to industrial and scientific relevance,the assessment of the PAPR reduction has become popular subject in the currentdecade. This study presents the combination of bat algorithm with partialtransmit sequence scheme as an efficient PAPR reduction method with analleviated computational load. A set of simulations with different partialtransmit sequence schemes are performed to comparatively evaluate the PAPRreduction performance of the partial transmit sequence based on bat algorithmscheme in OFDM system. The simulation results elucidate that BA-PTS scheme canprovides better PAPR reduction performance with less computational load.	Bat Algorithm, OFDM, PAPR, PTS
883	Misalignment fault detection by wavelet analysis of vibration signals	Asynchronous motors arefrequently used in many industrial applications, especially pumps and fans. Placement,bearing and coupling faults are common faults in these types of engines. Misalignmenterror is a common type of error that is seen very often among these errors. Thiserror may cause efficiency decrease in a short run and vibration may causeshort circuit and wear in moving parts in the stator windings in a long run. Earlydiagnosis of such faults is important in terms of machine health andproductivity. In this study, loose connection and angular imbalance of theasynchronous machine were investigated. In the experimental works, a 1 Phase 0.75KW power asynchronous motor, Y-0036-024A Electromagnetic Brake and SKF Micrologvibration meter were used during the measurements. The Frequency components ofmotor caused by the settlement errors were investigated under the differentloads. A loose assembly error and angular imbalance were investigated from themisalignment errors. The engine was run idle and without any positioning errorsand measurements were taken from different points with the accelerometer andthe frequency spectrum examined. Measurements are repeated when themisalignment errors are occurred on purpose and the FFT frequency componentswere compared under the load of 12.50Nm using magnetic brake. The results showthat the FFT frequency components are examined and the placement error can bedetermined with high success and accuracy. It has been found that harmonic componentsare formed in the frequency spectrum at 25Hz Coefficients. After the settlementerror is generated it is seen that, undesired frequency components that areunloaded are lowered under load when the frequency spectra is examined. In thisstudy, theoretical and experimental comparisons of settlement errors are made.Although many errors in this subject are examined in the same publication ingeneral, only the results of the settlement errors are examined specifically asa contribution to the literature. The results and graphs are presentedcomparatively to the reader's knowledge.	Asynchronous motors, Misalignment fault, Vibration frequency spectrum
884	Influence of fabrication temperature on the structural features of chitosan gels for tissue engineering applications	Chitosan is a natural polymersynthesized from the chitin of crab, lobster shells, fungal mycelia and shrimp.It has been used for biomedical applications in many different structuresincluding thin film, nanofibrous membrane, sponge, microsphere, hydrogel andcryogel because of its non-toxicity, biodegradability, biocompatibility andantibacterial properties. Cryogelation technique is based on the crosslinkingof polymers or crosslinking polymerization of monomers in the presence ofcrosslinking agents at temperatures below zero. On the other hand, hydrogelsare mainly prepared at room temperature. In this study, chitosan gels wereprepared at different reaction temperatures (-25, 0 and +25°C). Swellingprofiles revealed that with decreasing reaction temperature swelling ratioincreased. In addition, the degradation rate of chitosan gels prepared at -25and +25°C was measured 50.60 and 30.88%, respectively. Results indicate thatreaction temperature affects the architecture and characterization results ofthe gels.	Chitosan, Cryogel, Hydrogel, Scaffold, Tissue Engineering
885	Using of recycling materials in the construction sector	"The fact that the population isincreasing day by day requires more careful use of limited resources. Makingthese limited resources reusable after use has a separate meaning in terms ofboth the environment and the economy. Therefore; the importance of recyclingactivities is increasing day by day. The managers of the countries; Due to theincreasing importance of recycling activities, they make legal arrangements toencourage these activities. Particularly in the construction sector, because ofthe extensible resources are used extensively, recycling activities are appliedintensively. Within the scope of the study, the recycling activities (asphalt,used vehicle tires, slags, glass waste and marble waste) in the constructionsector were researched. In addition, applications after recycling of materialshave been examined. The economic contribution of the acquisition of materialsthrough recycling has been expressed."	Aggregate, Bituminous Material, Glass Waste, Recycling
886	A review study on ladle slag detection technologies in continuous casting process	Insteel production, continuous casting method using BOF or EAF is increasing dayby day. However, the complex nature of the continuous casting process posesmany challenges for steelmakers. During the general steel production process ofliquid steel, the state of ladle slag penetration into liquid steel is one ofthe most influential factors in steel quality. If the ingress of ladle slaginto liquid steel cannot be controlled, undesirable results in terms of poorquality, safety and castability can occur. Generally, ladle slag consists ofoxides such as CaO, SiO 2, Al 2 O 3, MgO. In conventional methods, the operatorprevents the slag entry by manually controlling it. This method is performeddirectly by the operator, so the error rate is high. For this reason, it is notdesired to be used by steel producers who want high quality products. In thiscontext, steel mills carry out various activities to separate slag from liquidsteel. The development of sensor technologies has accelerated the slagdetection process. Acceleration and magnetic sensors are among the most widelyused methods in this field. In this study,the systems used worldwide for the determination of slag in the continuouscasting process were investigated and presented. The advantages and disadvantagesof these systems are discussed. The detection methods by considering investmentcost, detection time, accuracy were compared and presented. In the scope ofthis study, it is seen that every method has own advantages and disadvantagesover other.	Continuous cast, Ladle slag detection, Vibration
888	Constrained model predictive control for the quadruple-tank process	Model Predictive Control (MPC) is an advanced method ofcontrollers, explicitly uses of model to obtain control signal. MPC is popularin industry and academia because it is capable to deals with non-minimum phase,unstable, dead time and multivariable processes, and solves the problem ofconstraints. MPC with integral action method is used in this study for thequadruple tank system by taking the lower two tanks into account. The objectiveof this work is to design and study the MPC method for controlling the level oftanks in a quadruple tank process depending on type of constrained problems.However, to solve the problem of constraints is not easy way. The methods basedon the quadratic programming function and ‘if-else’ technique are presented to solvethe problem of the process constraints in MPC. A comparative study is performedwith the quadratic programming function and ‘if-else’ technique. Theperformance of the proposed method is tested for reference tracking anddisturbance rejection behavior. Simulation results are presented and discussedto show the performance of the controller.	Model predictive control, MIMO systems, ARIMAX systems, Non-minimum phase systems, Quadrupule-tank, Quadratic programming, Prediction
889	An experimental study on production of intelligent textile by using ionocromic materials	"Theproduction of an intelligent textile material that changes color under theinfluence of pH was researched in this research article. For this purpose,halochromic dyes were used. In halochromic dyes, bleeding and fastnessproblems are encountered after dyeing. In order to solve these problems; the dye is fixed with cationic fixators in thetextile fiber. In this study, a woven nylon fabric was dyed with Alizarin Red Shalochromic dyestuff by conventional dyeing method which was followed bypost-treated by tannic acid/potassium antimony tartarate at different ratios(1%, 2%, 3%). After dyeing and post-treating, CIELab, K/S, ?E* values weremeasured by spectrophotometer and compared. In order to investigate the effect of halochromics on the post-treated, dyed and post-treatedfabrics were immersed in 5 different solutions prepared by using HCl and NaOH between pH 2 and 10, and the sampleswere removed after 1 hour and the color change in the samples wascompared. After the process, the speed of fixation of the dye molecule onto thefiber was increased.Corrected by Aslıhan Koruyucu and Ayben Pakolpakçıl Correction to: An experimental study on production of intelligent textile by using ionochromic materials International Advanced Researches and Engineering Journal 04(01): 056, 2020 DOI: 10.35860/iarej.686847"	Halochromic dyes, pH-indicator, pH-sensor, Textile
890	On the equivalent ZIP parameter extraction of desktop computer cases and LCD monitors connected in parallel	Constant-impedance,constant-current and constant-power ZIP models of electrical loads are commonlyused in smart grid and residential load applications. Some of residential loadsare of nonlinear nature such as LCD monitors and computers. In this study, first,equivalent ZIP model formulas of parallel-connected electrical loads arederived. Then, the ZIP models of an LCD monitor, a computer case and thecomputer case and the monitor connected in parallel have been obtained usingexperimental data and least-squares curve fitting method. Finally, theequivalent ZIP model formulas are tested with the experimental data. It hasbeen found that for the rectifier nonlinear loads with different ZIPparameters, the formulas do not give acceptable errors. Therefore, forrectifier nonlinear loads, the measurement-based approach for load modelingmust be performed.	Computers, LCD monitors, Least squares method, Load models, Residential appliances, ZIP model
891	TEM characterization and synthesis of nanoparticle B4C by high-energy milling	In this study, nanoparticle B4C synthesis was carried out byhigh-energy milling. For this purpose, B2O3-C-Mg triplesystems were used in the reaction stoichiometric ratios as starting materialsin the experimental studies. The reduction process of B2O3was performed using speks type milling device. The transformation of theceramic phase of the nanoparticle B4C by XRD analysis was examined.In terms of microstructural characterization of its powder shape andmorphology, TEM (imaging and selected area diffraction pattern) investigationswere conducted. The product synthesized by the leaching process was cleanedfrom MgO/B4C impurities and the production of the nanoparticle B4Cwas performed. After leaching processes, it was determined that some of thesynthesized powders were below 50 nm, while others varied between the ranges of50-350 nm. In TEM examinations of B4C particles carried out afterleaching process, it was seen that there were twin formations observed asplanar error. Depending on the d values calculated by solving the TEMdiffraction patterns, the planes represented by nano-sized B4Cparticles were determined.	TEM, Diffraction pattern, B4C, Nanoparticle, Synthesis
893	Investigation on the corrosion resistances of bronze-waste tire-concrete composites	In this study, finely groundCuAl10Ni bronze sawdust and waste tire additives were incorporated into C30concrete at different amounts and then their corrosion resistances wereinvestigated. SEM/EDX analyses were performed. It was observed that after acidsattacks, as the waiting time in the acid solutions increased, electricalsurface resistance values increased due to further corrosion. Also, more lossesin the weight were observed in the pure concrete than the concretes includingbronze sawdust and waste tire grains, then those refractories showed highercorrosion resistances than that of pure concrete.	Bronze sawdust, Composite, Concrete, Corrosion, Waste tire
894	"A Turkish CHP case study; techno-economic, environmental and policy analysis"	The Turkish energy policy requires a strategic framework for sustainable economic growth, energy security and to meet the continuously rising energy demand. The 2030 energy plan of Turkey has a target to achieve 30% of its electricity generation from renewable technology with a significant reduction in global Green House Gas emissions by utilizing local renewable energy resources and clean technologies. Also, the Turkish energy network requires a significant contribution from other technologies such as combined heat and power and integrated energy systems to develop a strong, efficient and effective renewable energy network.This case study involves a techno-economic, policy and environmental assessment of a combined heat and power system for the Izmir Institute of Technology. It highlights the inefficiency of the existing system and proposes a CHP system to meet the current and future energy requirement. Two systems were taken into consideration, a gas turbine and a reciprocating engine based combined cycle systems to analyze the best possible scenario to achieve sustainability.The result shows that the reciprocating engine based system provided a reduction of 77% of CO2 emissions with increased overall efficiency of 47% and 0.166 million USD annual savings in comparison with the grid-based system and gas turbine with a reduction of 8% of CO2 emissions and increased overall efficiency of 43.5%. The outcome depict the importance of the CHP system on universities, institutes, and residential applications and emphasize on the modification of the policies towards the 5th generation energy network, including a combination of different technologies to achieve the energy and environmental targets for strengthening the Turkish energy network.	Energy Efficiency, Combined Heat and Power, Energy Policy, Techno-Economic and Environmental Analysis, Sustainability
898	Analysis of Silicon Solar Cell Device Parameters using PC1D	Perceivingthe role of each layer relevant to the parameters in a silicon solar cell isimportant for engineering of solar structures for high efficiencies. PC1Dsimulation of silicon solar cells were carried out in this work to evaluate theperformance parameters of each layer and outcomes were analyzed consideringtheir effects in final cell. Absorber layer, emitter layer, antireflectioncoating layer and back surface field layer were studied especially in terms ofdoping levels, thicknesses, absorbance behavior and final cell performance. Theshort circuit current density (Jsc) is found to be directlyproportional to the absorber layer thickness until the thickness of 160µm whereasthe open circuit voltage (Voc) is inversely proportional for therange of 30 to 280µm. The device with 2x1020 cm-3 dopingconcentration of emitter was more efficient for homogenous emitter solar cells.The thickness of emitter has degrading effects on the efficiency of the device,the device with 0.1µm emitter thickness is found to have the highestefficiency. Doping concentration of back surface field had considerable effecton Voc of the device for the range of 3x1017 to 3x1018cm-3. Triple layer antireflection coating improved the short circuitcurrent density by a ratio of 50.8% and overall efficiency by a ratio of 51.07%comparing to the those of the cells without antireflection coating. Measureddata of a fabricated high efficiency solar cell was in conformity with theresults of the simulation. According the performed studies and achievedresults, understanding and estimating the effects of these primary parameterson solar cell performance is beneficial for designing a high efficiency solarcell structure.	PC1D, solar cell, crystalline silicon
902	Transient temperature distribution and thermal stresses in a thick plate subjected to random pulses	This paper deals with the determination of second-order statistics (the mean of each component and correlations between components) of the quasi-static temperature distribution and thermal stresses on a thick plate under thermal load. The heated thick circular plate with random internal heat generation acting at random instants of time, in addition to sectional heat supply in the form of random impulses on the upper face, while the lower face is kept at zero temperature, and the fixed circular edge thermally insulated in considered for investigation. A type of Laplace transform method is employed to obtain the analytical solutions for the temperature and stresses statistics. Numerical results demonstrate the effects of the magnitude with the statistics of the temperature and thermal stresses and represented graphically.	Random pulse, temperature, thermal stresses
915	THE EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL ADDITION TO FUEL ON PISTON WEAR IN A TWO-STROKE ENGINE	In this study, the effects of 20% methanol (BM20) and ethanol (BE20) addition to the fuel of a motor scythe with a two-stroke gasoline engine, which is also used as a hand tool, were examined. The effects of adding alcohol to gasoline on fuel consumption value, the amount of deluge release on the piston, piston overflows and exhaust emissions were investigated. The motor scythe was operated for 50 hours and 100 hours to investigate the amount of wear. With the addition of methanol and ethanol, it was determined that the fuel consumption value and wear increased and the amount of hallucinations decreased compared to gasoline. In terms of emission values, reduction in CO and HC emissions with alcohol use, reduction in CO2 emissions with BM20 fuel mixture, increase with BE20 fuel mixture was determined.	Two-stroke engine, Alcohol, wear, Exhaust emission
916	COMPLEXITY MEASURES OF SPORTS FACILITIES ALLOCATION IN URBAN AREA BY METRIC ENTROPY AND PUBLIC DEMAND COMPATIBILITY	"Sports has an important role for the health of present societies and the next generations as an element of urban design. Sports facilities have strong effects on the social life in urban areas. The facilities supply the communication between the dynamics of the cities and generate synergy in the city life of people interacting with each other for improvement in their lives. Before the construction of the sports facilities, the planners must evaluate the type and size of them in terms of the population of the whole city and, the population of neighboring settlement areas, which use the facility. Entropy can be used as a criterion for the quantitative measure of spatial information on maps. In the study, the location of the sports facilities in Istanbul are compared by using the entropy as a quantitative criterion. As a result, the success of the location selection for the sports facilities in urban areas are estimated by using the entropy as a component. Metric entropy method and applications were carried out by a case study in the city of Istanbul for defining the spatial distribution of sports facility locations with the posts of people including ""sports"" and sports-related keywords on social media."	Metric entropy, Urban complexity and spatial distribution, Social media data, Volunteered geographic information(VGI)
917	REDUCTION OF MASS APPRAISAL CRITERIA WITH PRINCIPAL COMPONENT ANALYSIS AND INTEGRATION TO GIS	In real estate, mass appraisal is a very important subject in the valuation of two and more properties. It can be of benefit in a number of fields including taxation, banking transactions, expropriation, etc. The base problem is which criteria to use for mass appraisal. Because the number of criteria and the criteria themselves vary according to people, regions and countries, they are uncertain. They should be optimum in order to save on time, labor and cost. The aim of this study is to reduce the criteria by determining which ones affect the plot value. A survey which was answered by a total of 2,531 participants was conducted in Turkey. Principal Component Analysis (PCA), one of the criteria analysis methods, was applied to the survey data. The number of criteria was reduced to 14 with separation and to 30 according to the results of PCA. But they decreased in the model verification when criteria data for 558 samples were collected in the Konya study area. An index of the neighborhood and locational features of these criteria was created by using GIS. Three models were established using Multiple Regression Analysis (MRA) and the performance of the models was examined. The prediction values and the market value were integrated into the GIS to compare the spatial distributions of plot values.	Mass Appraisal, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Geographic Information Systems (GIS), index
918	POSITIONING BUILDINGS ON A ZONING ISLAND TO PROVIDE MAXIMUM SHADING: A CASE STUDY	Because summer days are long, and the weather is too hot, people desire shady spaces to escape the overwhelming effect of the sun. To keep buildings and open-air environments in the shade, a suitable building location design may be created at the planning stage. Positioning of buildings and recreation areas in the maximum amount of shade is closely dependent on the location of the buildings to be built, the distance between the buildings, the time of the day and the sun angles at a particular hour. It was found necessary to carry out this study, since no study was found to be carried out regarding the positioning of buildings in the maximum amount of shade. For buildings to be built in residential areas, separate or block arrangements are applied. This study discusses a building to be built on a reconstruction island in Adana in the Eastern Mediterranean Region of Turkey. First of all, the shading effects of the buildings adjacent to the building in a parcel were examined in detail based on various positions of the façades of the building and different values of the solar azimuth. As a result of the study, the positioning of the buildings for providing the maximum shading was investigated. If the front and rear façades of the buildings were located in the west-east direction, according to the positioning of the buildings in the north-south direction, the front and rear façades would be exposed to less sunlight and more shade. In h = ± 6 sun hours, the façades of buildings in the parcels facing the north were under the influence of the sun rays coming from the side, and the rear façades of the buildings were in the shade.	Sun Angles, Shading, Building Shading Positions, Energy Efficiency
919	USER-CENTRED DESIGN AND EVALUATION OF MULTIMODAL TOURIST MAPS	User-centred maps are designed to provide users with the geospatial information they need primarily by their interests and thus more powerful support for their geospatial decision-making. In many cases, creating this kind of maps involves designing maps at multiple modes. Tourism is one of the areas that various kinds of maps both analogue and digital are widely used. Well-designed tourist maps can contribute to increasing the attractiveness of a region and the satisfaction of the visitors. Although some applications are available on user-centred multimodal tourist maps for web and mobile environments, there is no comprehensive study dealing with the paper maps. Therefore, this article focuses on the design and production as well as the evaluation of user-centred multimodal tourist maps for the analogue environment in the case of Kyrenia (Girne) district of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The study consists of three main phases. In the first phase, a tourist geospatial database was constructed for the district of Kyrenia. In the second phase, user-centred multimodal tourist maps were designed and produced for three types of tourism, considering the prominent characteristics of the district in this respect. In the third phase, user evaluations were carried out for the existing and produced tourist maps. For this purpose, newly designed maps (as a group) and an existing tourist map of the district were evaluated individually and comparatively by potential users of different gender, age and education characteristics by face-to-face survey method. The survey results showed that the user-centred multimodal maps are more preferable than the general tourist map.	Map Design, Multimodal Tourist Map, User-Centred Design, Kyrenia (Girne)
920	Determination of Fuel Type for Optimal Performance and Emission in a CI Engine Used Biodiesel and its Blends via Multi-Criteria Decision Making	In this study, fuel type which provides optimum engine performance and exhaust emission for a compression ignition (CI) engine used alternative fuel was determined by COPRAS in multi criteria decision making (MCDM), and it was ranked from good to bad. Furthermore, the engine performance and exhaust emission results obtained from the use of fuels are discussed. In the experiments, pure biodiesel, diesel and biodiesel/diesel blend fuels at ratio of 5, 20 and 50% by volume were used as alternative fuel. The performance and exhaust emission characteristics of the engine have been obtained in the tests performed at constant load (7.2 kW) and engine speed (1500 rpm). According to experimental results, with the increase of the biodiesel ratio in the mixture fuel, it has been observed that while the specific fuel consumption is increased compared to diesel, the thermal efficiency is partially reduced. At the same time, the hydrocarbon (HC), carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions decreased while the carbon dioxide (CO2) emission increased. According to COPRAS method, the ranking of fuels from best to worst was calculated as B5>B20>B50>B0>B100.	Biodiesel, MCDM, COPRAS, Optimum performance and emission, COPRAS
921	LAND SURFACE TEMPERATURE ANOMALIES IN RESPONSE TO CHANGES IN FOREST COVER	Land cover/use changes specially the forest cover changes affect the local surface temperature (LST) of the earth. In this study, a combination of remote sensing and GIS techniques was used to scrutinize the interactions between LST anomalies and deforestation in Sardasht County, NW Iran. The land cover/use change layers of the study area were extracted from Landsat satellite imagery based on Binary Encoding classification and change detection technique. The radiometric correction analysis were done for each Landsat image to derive LST map layers. According to the results, a descending trend in forest cover with a total 2560 ha decline in area and an ascending trend of about 4 degrees rise in surface temperature values on both forest and non-forest areas were detected in the study area from 1984 to 2017. The temporal and spatial analysis yielded high rates of reverse temporal correlation (-0.81) between forest areas and LST anomalies while the correlation value of 0.76 was found for non-forest areas and LST. The regression analysis of the values confirmed the correlation results to be trustable at 99 percent. It was also found that the deforested areas of the study area correlate with the LST rise spatially with a very high correlation (0.98) from which a tangible interaction of the parameters can be inferred.	Iran, Land Surface Temperature, Sardasht, Zagros Forest
922	EFFECT OF CURING REGIMES ON THE ENGINEERING PROPERTIES OF HYBRID FIBER REINFORCED CONCRETE	In this study, the effects of curing regimes on the engineering properties of hybrid fiber reinforced concrete were investigated experimentally. Three type conventional concrete mixtures with no fiber, fiber and hybrid fiber having almost same slump value were designed. Later, specimens produced from these concrete mixtures were exposed to different curing conditions namely standard 23±2 °C water, sealed and air curing regimes. After 7 and 28 curing days, the mechanical tests were carried out to determine compressive, splitting tensile, flexural strength and ultrasonic pulse velocity. Also, the flexural performance of concrete specimens was determined by four-point bending test. Finally, the concrete specimens cured in water had the best mechanical properties and energy absorption capacity while those of concrete specimens cured in air were the worst. The specimens cured in sealed condition had similar mechanical properties compared to the specimens cured in water. Moreover, the deflection-hardening response was observed in all fiber reinforced concrete specimens.	Macro Steel Fiber, Micro Steel Fiber, Curing Conditions, Deflection-hardening response, Engineering properties
923	COMPARISON OF 2018 AND 2007 TURKISH EARTHQUAKE REGULATIONS	"The new building earthquake regulation of Turkey has been published on 18 March 2018. There are two different methods in the new code: Linear and nonlinear earthquake analysis methods. In the present study, the different structural applications of a school project located in Gaziantep province of Turkey analyzed by using linear earthquake calculation methods. The structure has modeled with three different ways; only with Reinforced Concrete columns, with Reinforced Concrete columns and Shear Walls, only with Shear Walls. In analysis, 2007 regulation on buildings in earthquake zones are compared with the new Turkish 2018 earthquake code. The software SAP 2000 is used for the calculations and program outcomes are used for comparisons. Base shear forces, maximum displacement and force values and overturning moment findings are calculated in each structural configuration. The advantages and disadvantages of the new earthquake code are discussed in detail using earthquake analysis results."	2018 Turkish earthquake regulations, Base shear forces, Joint displacements, 2007 Turkish regulations on buildings in earthquake zones
924	PERFORMANCE OF NETWORK RTK CORRECTION TECHNIQUES (FKP, MAC and VRS) UNDER LIMITED SKY VIEW CONDITION	In recent years, the continuously operating reference station – Turkey (CORS-TR) system has been widely used in engineering and cadastral work in Turkey due to ease of use, low cost, and national legislative requirements. In this study, long-term Network RTK (Real-time Kinematic) data were collected under 10°, 20°, 30° and 40° satellite views using a different approach from previous work. In order to evaluate the positioning performance of the system, the measurements were undertaken at different elevation angles (open, partially blocked and extremely blocked) and by considering three different correction techniques (FKP, VRS and MAC), and the results were evaluated in terms of repeatability. From the analysis of the data, it was understood that the performances of the three correction techniques were generally similar, and even in the case of a limited satellite view, the errors remained below 7 cm in all three techniques. However, when the 2D and 3D components were analyzed together, VRS technique showed better results than the other two techniques.	Cors-Tr, Fkp, Mac, Vrs, Network-RTK
925	Side Channel Attack	Embedded frameworks remain continuously adopted in a varied range of application places. Cryptography is the design besides analysis of calculated structures that enable communications for security issue in the presence of malicious adversaries. Side channel attacks are a current class of attacks that remains very powerful in practice. Via measuring side channel data, the attacker has the ability to capture very sensitive data. Despite the fact that conventional side-channel attacks, such by means of power analysis attacks besides electromagnetic analysis attacks, required physical presence of the attacker by means of expensive equipment, an application is all it takes to exploit the leaking data on nowadays trendy mobiles. Given the vast amount of sensitive data that remain putting in storage on smartphones, the ramifications of side-channel attacks affect both the security besides confidentiality of utilizer’s besides their gadget. Side-channel attacks remain a technique that can break the security protection via exploiting non-functional behaviors. This study focused on various parametric attacks, like time analysis Attack, Power Analysis Attack, Electromagnetic Analysis Attack. In this paper we have evaluated the current memory-level side-channel attacks and countermeasures, mainly focusing on the timing attacks against cloud and embedded frameworks available in the literature.	Side channel Attack, Security, Attacks, Vulnerability
940	Combustion Analysis of Biodiesel Derived from Bone Marrow in a Diesel Generator at Low Loads	In thisstudy, biodiesel was produced from bone marrow by transesterification method.The vast majority of animal bones cannot be collected and recycled. Thisexperimental study was carried out to incorporate unused resources in theeconomy. In this study, the effects of biodiesel produced from bone marrow oncombustion characteristics of diesel engine were investigated. The B20 (mixing 20% of biodiesel and 80%diesel) and diesel (D2) were used as fuel in the tests. The tests were carried out at constant speed(1500 rpm) and different engine loads (20% and 40% of the maximum power output)of a diesel engine with direct injection, four-cylinder, and four-stroke. The combustion characteristics of the engine, such ascylinder gas pressure, heat release rate, cumulative heat release, and mean gastemperature were determined using combustion analysis software (FEBRIS) under3.6 and 7.2 kW loads. The maximum pointsof cylinder gas pressures have been very close in both fuels (D2, B20) at the3.6 kW power output. The peak pressure of the B20 raised with theincrease of the engine load. The oxygen in the content and higher cetane numberof the biodiesel has raised the peak point of the heat release rate.	"Alternative fuels, Biodiesel from bone marrow; Diesel engine, Combustion characteristics"
944	Particle mass and gaseous emissions from small scale modern wood stoves	The objectives of the paper were to evaluateparticle mass concentrations of PM1 (size <1 µm) and PM2.5(size <2.5 µm), mass size distributions and CO emissions under standardlaboratory conditions obtained from two commercially available modernresidential wood stoves with capacity 10 kW and 20 kW. Four combustion batcheswith minor modification of primary air flows into the combustion chamber foreach stove were conducted to evaluate the emission results. Particle massconcentrations and size distributions were measured in real time using anElectrical Low Pressure Impactor Plus (ELPI+) instrument, which measuresparticles with a fast response time in a wide particle size range from 6 nm to10 µm aerodynamic diameter. Gaseous concentrations of O2 and CO2were measured continuously using a Horiba PG-250 analyzer and CO emissions weremeasured using a Siemens Ultramat 6 gas analyzer. The measurement protocols ofeach combustion test were conducted according to the European standard EN13229. The combustion experiments were conducted in a laboratory of a stovemanufacturing plant in Belgium. The results showed that PM1 and PM2.5concentrations of all the batches of both stoves varied from 116 to 327 mg/Nm3and 139 to 413 mg/Nm3, respectively in the combustion cycle.Particle mass size distribution for all batches from both stoves is verysimilar showing a maximum in the fine mode at a particle size of around330 nm to 500 nm. The CO emissions from all the batches varied from447 to 1184 mg/Nm3 for the 10 kW stove and 958 to 1545 mg/Nm3for the 20 kW stove. The experimental results of PM1, PM2.5concentrations and CO emissions from combustion measurements could be usefulfor the improvement of the combustion process as well as the reduction ofgaseous and particle mass emissions from these residential biomass combustionappliances.	particle mass concentrations, PM1, PM2.5, mass size distributions, CO emissions
945	Effects of biodiesel usage on mechatronic components in automobiles with diesel engine: A review	"The extinction of petroleum-based fuel resourcesand reducing regulations of the environmental pollution compel enginemanufacturers and researchers to develop alternative fuels and high-performanceengines. New generation diesel engines developed in recent years; equipped withhigh-pressure injection systems, modern dispenser pumps, and improvedinjectors. The use of alternative fuels in this new generation of mechatronicsystems is also an issue examined by researchers. During engine operation,biodiesel, one of the renewable alternative fuels, can cause reduced engineperformance, heavy carbon and varnish deposits in mechatronic components, andactual damage to the engine. In this study, mechatronic systems constitutingengine management system are introduced. The effects of biodiesel usage on newgeneration diesel engines with the common rail injection system areinvestigated and the problems encountered in the use of biodiesel are evaluated."	Diesel engine, Mechatronic components, Common rail, Diesel oxidation catalyst, Selective catalytic reduction
946	Induction assisted pasteurization of honey	Honey pasteurization is one of the important steps of honey processing which requires thermal energy to elevate temperature of the honey to inactivate enzymes and to inhibit bacteria. Common technique used for thermal treatment of honey is batch jacketed pasteurizer driven by electrical resistance to heat water, oil or steam. Each heating approach requires high amount of energy which is transferred directly or indirectly to the honey. Furthermore, heat generation is expensive and there are several steps which cause energy and exergy loses such as boiler, heater, pipe, heating medium, wall thickness of the vessel etc. Alternatively, induction is a technology using electromagnetic heating with unique advantages as heating metal surfaces directly and effectively. Inductive heating has been used for some industries as metallurgy, however, possible food applications such as batch pasteurization was not studied in detail. The objective of this research is comparing energy and exergy efficiencies of conventional jacketed vessel heater and inductive heater for honey pasteurization. Consequently, inductive method was found more beneficial compared to commercial method in terms of energy and exergy efficiency.	Honey pasteurization, Induction assisted heating, Energy efficiency
955	Examination Of Geographic Information Systems And Geodesign Technologies In Urbanizm Studies in Turkey	Hijrah, a turning point interms of Muslims' time and space identifications, has also begun a new processin which perceptions of life. After Hijrah, Yesrib became a city, and a host tothe Mohammedi urbanization process. It is possible that Madinah may be the role model of cities because of the reason and scopethat it contains. In Islam, the concepts of urban and urbanization have animportant meaning with correct ontology. In this paper the correct ontology on the property issummarized for the understanding of the concepts ofurban and urbanization.Meanwhile GIS and Geodesign methodologies, which are important tools ofapproachs to urban texture, are examined in Turkey under this ontology.	Geographical information systems, geodesign, urban
958	ANN APPROACH FOR ESTIMATION OF COW WEIGHT DEPENDING ON PHOTOGRAMMETRIC BODY DIMENSIONS	Computer technology and software are widely used in every multi-discipline field. Geomatics engineering can be seen as a pioneer of these disciplines especially in photogrammetry and image processing. Photogrammetry is a method where geometric parameters of objects on digitally captured images are determined and make measurements on them. Capturing the digital images and photogrammetric processing include several fully defined stages, which allows to generate three-dimension or two-dimension digital models of the body as an end product. The aim of this study is to predict Holstein cows’ live weight via artificial neural network whose body dimensions were determined with photogrammetry method. The body dimensions to be used in this study are obtained metric from analysis of cows’ images captured by synchronized three-dimension camera environment from different aspects. Wither height, hip height, body length, hip width of cows determined with photogrammetry. Artificial neural network prediction model was developed by using these body measurements. Dataset is divided into two after preprocessing as training and testing dataset. Different structured artificial neural network models are generated and the artificial neural network model which has the best performance is determined. Then with this artificial neural network model live weight of animals is estimated by using measurements obtained from images. After comparison of estimated live weights and weights obtained from scale, correlation coefficient is found (R=0.995). The statistical analysis shows that both groups are meaningful and artificial neural network can be used in live weight prediction safely.	Photogrammetry, Image Analysis, Artificial Neural Network, Live weight
959	COMPARISON OF DIFFERENT INTERPOLATION TECHNIQUES IN DETERMINING OF AGRICULTURAL SOIL INDEX ON LAND CONSOLIDATION PROJECTS	Land consolidation (LC) is a tool to improve the processing efficiency of agricultural area and the promotion of rural development same time an indispensable application for the promotion of sustainable agriculture. In order to achieve the reallocation process after LC, determining the correct of soil index (SI) for each of the agricultural parcels is very important for the success of LC projects. Nowadays, interpolation methods are extensively applied in the mapping processes to estimate the SI at unsampled sites. The objective of this study was to evaluate and compare the performance of three interpolation methods for the agricultural SI values maps with GIS technology for LC projects. The SI data were determined from 132 observation points. Three spatial interpolation methods Ordinary Kriging (OK), Inverse Distance Weighted (IDW), and Radial Basis Functions (RBFs) were utilized for modeling the agricultural SI values. The results indicated that all methods provided a high prediction accuracy of the mean concentration of SI. In this study, although the best performed interpolation method was the OK, the results showed that the performance differed slightly among three methods. Results show that all the methods present a good performance in the estimation with RMSE (root mean square error) and ME (mean error) close to 0%.	Land consolidation (LC), Soil index (SI), Ordinary Kriging (OK), Inverse Distance weighting (IDW), Radial Basis Functions (RBFs)
960	OUTLIER DETECTION OF LAND SURFACE TEMPERATURE: KÜÇÜKÇEKMECE REGION	Unplanned and rapid urbanization is one of the reasons for the rising surface temperature values in urban areas. There is a considerable amount of literature demonstrating the association of urbanization with surface temperatures. Küçükçekmece Lake, an important lake which has been meeting utility water needs of Istanbul, and unplanned and rapid urbanization around it have been affected by this inevitable change for years. Although surface temperatures generally correlate strongly with each other, very high and very low temperature values should not be disregarded and need to be investigated. The current study was conducted with the assumption that these values could be outlier values and thus they were analyzed using the Box Plot method for the selected region. Correlations between Land Surface Temperature (LST) values obtained for Küçükçekmece and its vicinity was examined using Landsat OLI images of June 20, 2016 and June 23, 2017, and LST outliers and regions with common outliers of/on both days were determined. In the study, 310 LST outliers were identified for June 20, 2016 and 34 LST outliers for June 23, 2017, and in both images, 33 outliers were found to be common and they clustered in two different buildings. The reasons for the outliers outside the standard surface temperature values and recommended solutions were discussed.	LST, Outlier, Box Plot, Urbanization, Land Use/cover
961	INVESTIGATING LAND SURFACE TEMPERATURE CHANGES USING LANDSAT-5 DATA AND REAL-TIME INFRARED THERMOMETER MEASUREMENTS AT KONYA CLOSED BASIN IN TURKEY	The main purpose of this paper is to investigate multi-temporal land surface temperature (LST) changes of Konya Closed Basin (KCB) in Turkey using remotely sensed data. KCB is located in the semi-arid central Anatolian region of Turkey and hosts many important wetland sites including Salt Lake. Six Landsat-5 TM images selected from the 1984- 2011 period were used in the analysis. A real-time field work was performed during the overpass of Landsat-5 satellite on 21/08/2011 over Salt Lake to collect coordinated temperature measurements using a handheld GPS and thermal infrared thermometer. All satellite images were geometrically and radiometrically corrected to relate the image data with in-situ measurements. Thematic LST images were used to evaluate the conditions over the region between 1984 and 2011. The results show that real-time ground temperature and satellite remote sensing data were in good agreement with correlation coefficient (R2) values of 0.94. The remotely sensed and processed satellite images and resulting thematic indices maps show that dramatic land surface temperature changes occurred (about 2°C) in the KCB from 1984 to 2011. Analysis of climatic data supports this finding. Air temperatures and pan evaporation had significant upward trends from 1984 to 2011. Analysis conducted using both LST and climatic data prove that the basin has been experiencing drought in recent years. It is suggested that the use of water supplies, especially ground water should be controlled taking into account particularly summer drought impacts over the basin.	Konya Closed Basin, climate change, satellite remote sensing, Landsat-5 TM, land surface temperature, infrared thermometer
962	Autonomous flight performance improvement of the morphing aerial robot by aerodynamic shape redesign	In this article, autonomous flight performance of anunmanned aerial robot is advanced by benefiting aerodynamic nose and tail coneshapes redesign both experimentally and computationally. For this intention,aerodynamic performance criteria (i.e. maximum fineness) of a scaled model ofour autonomous aerial robot called as Zanka-II produced in Erciyes UniversityFaculty of Aeronautics and Astronautics Model Aircraft Laboratory is firstobserved in sub-sonic Wind Tunnel. Results obtained in this wind tunnel arevalidated using a computational fluid dynamics (CFD) software (i.e. Ansys).Therefore, nose and tail cone of fuselage are improved in order to maximizemaximum fineness of the autonomous aerial robot. A novel scaled model usingoptimum data is then produced and placed in Wind Tunnel in order to validateAnsys results with experimental results. By using geometrical data of ultimateaerodynamically optimized aerial robot, better autonomous flight performance isachieved in both simulation environment (i.e. Matlab and Simulink) and realtime flights.	Aerodynamic shape, Aerial robots, Autonomous performance, Nose cone, Tail cone
963	EDUCATION FOR REAL ESTATE VALUATION IN TURKEY	"In scientific terms, the real estate valuation is first started in Spain (to recover Castilian treasure from the bad condition) on 10th October 1749 in the world. Later, the ""value"" concept came to agenda to cadastral legislation of all European countries. For this reason the ""value"" issue was added cadastral legislation to France in 1808, Germany in 1872 and Holland in 1810. The first study based on the cadastral valuation in the Ottoman Empire mentioned in the Cadastre Law dated on 5th February 1912, but has dealt with the technical and legal aspects of the cadastre without taking of valuation into account. After the Republic of Turkey founded, although some of the Cadastre Laws (10th April 1924, 22nd April 1925, 15th December 1934, 15th March 1950, 21st June1987 and 22nd February 2005) include the term ”valuation” again only the technical and legal aspects were used since they are not exactly evaluative. The first scientific studies on the valuation in Turkey was started to at Yıldız Technical University on graduate training and undergraduate training with the course called Land Valuation in 1978 and Real Estate Valuation in 1988. The studies remained at the academic level. Within the Customs Union agreement in 1st January 1996 between Turkey and European Union, a great deal of foreign capital is started to enter into our country. Since there is no reliable, real time and correct records of the real estate values, some of the foreign capital owners were hesitated to enter our country. As a result, the need for the “honest people who can make valuations according to the scientific criteria” became obvious. Because of the applications of the foreign capital owners to the Turkish Government, the authorization of making licensing exams was given to the Capital Markets Board in order to find out the required valuers for the country. The need is partly satisfied by the licensing exams. However the necessity and importance of the valuation training in Turkey is started with these licensing exams. Today, valuation training is given at many universities (in associate, undergraduate and postgraduate degrees) in our country. The subject of this paper is on the quality and content of the training given in our country."	Valuation, Valuation Education, Real Estate Valuation Expert
964	AIRBORNE LIDAR DATA CLASSIFICATION IN COMPLEX URBAN AREA USING RANDOM FOREST: A CASE STUDY OF BERGAMA, TURKEY	"Airborne Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) data have been increasingly used for classification of urban areas in the last decades. Classification of urban areas is especially crucial to separate the area into classes for urban planning, mapping, and change detection monitoring purposes. In this study, an airborne LiDAR data of a complex urban area from Bergama District, İzmir, Turkey were classified into four classes; buildings, trees, asphalt road, and ground. Random Forest (RF) supervised classification method is selected as classification algorithm and pixel-wise classification was performed. Ground truth of the area was generated by digitizing classes into features to select training data and to validate the results. The selected study area from Bergama district is complex in urban planning of buildings, road, and ground. The buildings are very close to each other, and trees are also very close to buildings and sometimes cover the rooftops of buildings. The most challenging part of this study is to generate ground truth in such a complex area. According to the obtained classification results, the overall accuracy of the results is found as 70, 20%. The experimental results showed that the algorithm promises reliable results to classify airborne LiDAR data into classes in a complex urban area."	Random Forest, LiDAR, Classification, Complex Urban Area
966	Seminal Quality Prediction Using Deep Learning Based on Artificial Intelligence	Fertility rates have dramatically decreased inthe last two decades, especially in men. It has been described thatenvironmental factors, as well as life habits, may affect semen quality. Thispaper evaluates the performance of different artificial intelligence (AI)techniques for classifying fertility dataset that includes the semen sampleanalysed according to WHO 2010 criteria and publicly available on UCI datarepository. In this context, deepneural network (DNN) which involved in many studies in recent years is proposedto classify fertility dataset successfully. For the purpose of comparing theproposed method’s performance, Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference system (ANFIS) isalso used for the classification problem. The results show that the performanceof the DNN has the best with the average accuracy rate of 90.11%, and theresults of the other ANFIS methods are also satisfactory.	Classification, fertility, statistical methods, artificial intelligence, deep learning, ANFIS
967	Estimation of Seismic Response of R/C Frame Structures to Vertical Earthquake Motion Considering Fixed Support and Soil-Structure-Interaction (SSI)	"The present study aims to demonstrate the effects of vertical earthquake excitation on reinforced concrete frame structures (R/C) incorporating the approaches of Soil-Structure-Interaction (SSI) and rigid foundation. This effect is intended to be determined by making comparative study according to the engineering parameters of the base shear force, base axial force and overturning moment. Three earthquake time-histories currently used for the earthquake analysis of structure in literature are regarded to properly elucidate this effect. For the linear time-history analysis (LMTHA), finite element model (FEM) of a high-rise existing R/C structure designed according Turkish Seismic Code (TSC) is developed through frame, shell, solid, gap, link, linear damper elements. Similar modeling considerations are adopted for infinite soil zone. For the SSI analysis, the Direct Method (DM) is utilized, which enables to make an earthquake analysis of combined FEM (soil model+structure model) instead of separated FEM (the Substructure Method). The comparative study is carried out between the SSI and the fixed support (FS) model with fixed-supports under both only horizontal (H) and horizontal+vertical (HV) seismic motions. The difference between only H and H+V load cases for the engineering parameters that vertical earthquake motion is determined not to be effective on the base shear force, and the SSI model is recommended to be used for analysis due to resulting higher change than the FS. Therefore, no damages/failure resulting from the shear force is estimated under the vertical earthquake motion. Instead, the overturning moment is obtained with great change under H+V for all models; however, the SSI model yields to higher increase than the FS model; so, the SSI model is offered for more reliable analysis. Considerable increase in the overturning moment is predicted that vertical load bearing elements such as, columns and piers need to more strength capacity in terms of bending moment. The highest increase among the other parameters is obtained in the base axial force. However, the percentage increase is resulted as higher under H load than H+V, which means that vertical seismic motion treated as balancing effect. This lower change under H+V load case is directly pertinent to damping properties of the soil media. Therefore, design of columns and piers against axial force is recommended to be made for more safety according to the outcomes from the FS model."	vertical earthquake motion, soil-structure interaction, fixed support system, direct method, finite element method, base shear force, overturning moment
969	Predicting the Turkish Stock Market BIST 30 Index using Deep Learning	The non-linearity and high change rates of stockmarket index prices make prediction a challenging problem for traders and datascientists. Data modeling and machine learning have been extensively utilizedfor proposing solutions to this difficult problem. In recent years, deeplearning has proved itself in solving such complex problems. In this paper, we tacklethe problem of forecasting the Turkish Stock Market BIST 30 indexmovements and prices. We propose a deep learning model fed withtechnical indicators and oscillators calculated from historical index pricedata. Experiments conducted by applying our model on a dataset gathered for aperiod of 27 months on www.investing.com demonstrate that our solutionoutperforms other similar proposals and attains good accuracy, achieving 0.0332,0.109, 0.09, 0.1069 and 0.2581 as mean squared error in predicting BIST 30index prices for the next five trading days. Based on these results, we arguethat using deep neural networks is advisable for stock market index prediction.	Stock market index prediction, Deep learning, Deep Neural Network, Stock index, BIST
970	Design of a Distributed Control System with Fuzzy Logic Controller and PLC in Wireless Sensor Network Based Industrial Environments and Monitoring the System with RFID	Nowadaysindustrial applications are built on automatic control systems. The main reasonis to convert these control systems and industrial factories into smart ones.By converting them to smart factories, a high efficiency rate can be acquired.Generally automatic control systems are controlled by classical logic via PLC(Programmable Logic Controllers). In this method many problems can be met with.The most important one of these is that it is very difficult to create amathematical control unit. Trying to control the system with the traditionalway without creating a model can lead us to complicated algorithms. At the sametime complicated algorithms can cause wrong orientations in the system. Howeverthe fuzzy logic, which is one of the smart control methods, can help us tocreate the system just with linguistic expressions and some rules withoutrequiring a mathematical model. In this way with smart control methods,efficiency can be obtained in factories. Besides control systems, factories canbe made smart. The RFID technology is the main element of this process. Thefactory-material communication is provided via RFID technology. Thus, factoriescan communicate with the material that is produced without any humanintervention. The development of the smart factories and the rapid improvementsin automation systems caused demands in wireless technology to rise. As aresult of these demands, wireless sensor networks became a very importantsubject and its use is widespread. These systems provide us to send the data ina certain distance without any loss of the data, also removes all the cables inthe workplace. In this study a control system, distributed in wireless sensornetwork based industrial places, is controlled by a traditional PLC method andfuzzy logic. At the same time, the system is monitored by RFID and a solutionis proposed to a smart factory application.	Distributed Control Systems, Fuzzy Logic, PLC, RFID, Wireless Sensor Network
979	Implementation of Message Encryption Algorithms in Real Time Closed Network Systems	In the case of messaging systems used in closed network systems in military and other systems, encryption processes are generally not needed.Since these systems are usually real-time systems, interpretation of messages (encryption of the message and decriyption of the message) will adversely affect time synchronization and traceability. However, this situation also causes significant security vulnerabilities in such critical systems.In this study, different encryption methods were applied to the messaging structures used in military real - time closed network systems.The effects of these applied cipher methods on performance were made by creating three different test environments and the results obtained are presented in detail.	encryption, decryption, security, embedded system
1005	REAL TIME VECTOR DATABASE UPDATING SYSTEM: A CASE STUDY FOR TURKISH TOPOGRAPHIC VECTOR DATABASE (TOPOVT)	Turkish Topographic Vector Database (TOPOVT) is a 3D vector database comprising 1:25.000 scale or higher resolution topographic features, contours representing the topography and geographic names. TOPOVT is the basic geographic data source for our country mapping and base for GIS applications covering whole Turkey. So far data collection for TOPOVT has been carried out by General Command of Mapping. Updating of TOPOVT is a continuous process and goes on by annual planning on regional base. Geospatial data collection, either in the office or in the field, is a hard, costly and time consuming process. Using the existing geospatial data will be a suitable solution for get rid of all these expenses. Governmental institutions and municipalities have their own GIS and collect and update these geospatial data according to their needs. With a close look, these data are similar to TOPOVT data or with a little effort can be converted to TOPOVT model. TOPOVT Real Time Updating System was designed to provide all governmental institutions and municipalities producing and using geographic information via internet to update and easily access to TOPOVT. TOPOVT Real Time Updating System has been realized to avoid duplicate geographic data production countrywide and reflect the changes in topography to TOPOVT in real time or near real time. This system will enable governmental institutions and municipalities to update TOPOVT in their service areas according to their job definition without needing another software thus providing the TOPOVT users to make use of the up-to-date data. By this system, all the governmental institutions needing topographic database for their applications will easily reach TOPOVT, make use of the data in their field works and present the data they produced to country use. Also, by avoiding the duplicate geographic data production, national sources will be utilized economically and effectively.	TOPOVT, Real Time Updating, Topographic Feature, Vector Database
1009	ANALYSIS OF THE UTILITY OF THE UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE(UAV) IN VOLUME CALCULATION BY USING PHOTOGRAMMETRIC TECHNIQUES	Together with developments in software technology, various interpolation methods allow terrain surfaces to be better identified. The accuracy rate in volume calculations is directly proportional with representation in the best form. The non-metric cameras, which are assembled to unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), provide convenience in the photogrammetric measurements. Sensitive images are obtained with less cost by the use of unmanned aerial vehicles. The purpose of this study was to take photos from the air with the help of UAVs and to make volume calculations by using photogrammetric techniques. At the end of the study, the photogrammetric method had been completed in a shorter period than with the traditional method. The values found as the result of both methods have been found to be compatible with each other in the ratio of 99.33% in terms of sensitivity.	UAV, UAV photogrammetry, volume calculation
1012	COMPARISON OF REGIONAL AND GLOBAL TEC VALUES: TURKEY MODEL	The ionosphere is a layer of atmosphere 60 km to 1100 km above the earth and is composed of solar rays and ionized gases. The ionosphere is an important layer affecting Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) measures. The quality of GNSS measures is directly related to the changes in the ionosphere. For this reason, monitoring changes in the ionosphere is quite important. One of the important parameters expressing the characteristic of the ionosphere is the Total Electron Content (TEC), which is a function of electron density exhibiting transformation with solar radiation. In this study, 68 stations including 56 Continuously Operating Reference Stations-Turkey (CORS-TR) stations and also IGS stations were taken for evaluation. Bernese v5.2 GNSS software developed by Bern University of Switzerland was employed at the evaluation stage. From 2009 until 2015, TEC values were calculated at two hourly intervals, one day for each month. In the study, where a Single Layer Model was used, TEC values obtained from GNSS measurements have been compared with the TEC (IRI-2012 TEC) values obtained from the global ionosphere map (GIM-TEC) and the international ionosphere reference model programme published by the Centre for Orbit Determination in Europe (CODE), the European Space Agency (ESA), and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). As a result, the regional (RIM) TEC values and the global (CODE, ESA, JPL) TEC values showed a large similarity, and the IRI obtained TEC values remained lower than these four values was observed. Correlation coefficient was calculated to determine the relationship between regional TEC values obtained after the evaluation and global TEC values. There is a positive and quite high correlation between the regional (RIM) TEC values produced by the calculated correlation coefficients and the global (CODE, ESA, JPL) TEC and IRI TEC values.	GNSS, Total Electron Content (TEC), Ionosphere, Global Ionosphere Map (GIM)
1014	DETERMINATION OF BUILDING MATERIALS WITH IR-THERMOGRAPHY IN HISTORICAL BUILDINGS	Lately, IR thermography is frequently applied for important purposes in monitoring buildings such as energy leaking, ventilating and air-conditioning installations, electrical and mechanical installations, moisture detection etc. Nondestructive monitoring methods are essential in case of monitoring historical buildings. It is curtail not to destruct any part of the buildings, which are historically important. Therefore, nondestructive methods need to be used while monitoring this kind of buildings. In this study, IR-Thermography was used in order to distinguish different construction materials that were used to build the walls of a historical building. The thermal monitoring was made with Optris PI-450 long wave infrared camera. The results showed that IR monitoring can be useful to distinguish the building materials without destroying the investigated buildings’ plaster or facing. It is observed that the best results can be achieved on higher temperatures at IR-Thermography.	Remote Sensing, Building Materials, IR-thermography, Historical Buildings
1017	GIS AND THREE-DIMENSIONAL MODELING FOR CULTURAL HERITAGES	Cultural heritages are the history of the nations, and history forms the identities of the nations. Therefore, protection of cultural heritages means protection of the history and identity of the nations. Identification of the current status of cultural heritages is important for documentation, preservation, and for use as a base for restoration. Documentation studies need robust and scientific methods. GIS and photogrammetry have recently been the most commonly used scientific methods for documenting cultural heritages. The aim of this study is investigate the photogrammetric method and GIS for documentation of cultural heritages digitally. In documentation studies, digital terrestrial photogrammetry is one of the main methods of processing information of historical monuments on computers according to GIS and documenting it in three dimensions. In this study for documentation, all data of 46 historical monuments located in Silifke/Mersin were collected and transferred to a database so that it is made queryable. Some of those heritages were reconstructed as 3D models by the use of photogrammetric techniques. Finally, 3D Models were integrated into the system for presentation.	GIS, photogrammetry, historical monument, 3D modeling
1020	Usage of Vermiculite as Additive Material in Water-Based Drilling Muds	"Drilling mud is used in drilling operations to ensure well stability and to transport the cut-offs to the surface and is generally classified as; Spud, Lignosulfonate and Polymer types. Spud Mud is the simple mud and mostly used at the beginning of drilling operations. It is mainly composed of bentonite and water. With increasing depth, It is hard to keep well stability and to carry cuttings from the bottom of hole to the surface with the basic drilling fluid. Thus, some materials are used to maintain the rheological and filtration properties of the mud. One of them is vermiculite that is a general name of the hydrated ferromagnesian aluminium silicate group. It has expanded properties when heated. Like all clay minerals, the cation exchange capacity is very high and very similar to the montmorillonites in terms of high cation exchange capacity. In this study, the usage of vermiculite as an additive material in drilling muds was investigated. Spud muds containing vermiculite in different amounts were prepared. Then rheological and filtration analysis of the muds were done according to American Petroleum Institute (API) RP-13B-1 Standard. When evaluated the results, AV reached 41cP, PV 27cP, YP 28lb/100ft2 , 10 sec. gel strength 17lb/100ft2 , 10 min. gel strength 26 lb/100ft2 and filtration 9cc. The results showed that the vermiculite can might be used as a viscosifier and fluid loss reducing additive material in the drilling mud."	Drilling mud, Bentonite, Vermiculite, Viscosity, Rheology
1026	COST ANALYSIS OF MINI HYDRO POWER PLANT USING BACTERIAL SWARM OPTIMIZATION	According to the 2023 vision determined byTurkey, which is one of the G20 countries, it aims to evaluate of the hydropower potential in terms of technical and economic making medium and largehydro power plants. Turkey's mini and micro hydro power potential isn’t fullyevaluated as a number of countries. Inthis context, empirical formula for cost analysis of mini and micro hydro powerplants, which are becoming increasingly important, have been developed in thiswork with the aim of facilitating economic analysis. The developed equation is foundby modified Bacterial Swarm Optimization (BSO) algorithm. When analyzed withthe literature data, the obtained equation can calculate the costs with theleast mistakes.	Cost of Mini and Micro Hydropower, Pelton Turbine, Bacterial Swarm Optimization
1028	Effects of Green Tea Extracts on freshwater angelfish, Pterophyllum scalare Growth Performance	Thestudy was conducted to investigate the effects of dietary green tea extract(GTE) supplementation in diet on growth performance, feed utilization andbiometric indexes in freshwater angelfish,Pterophyllum scalare. The fish (mean body weight, 2.61±0.01 g) werefed fish meal diets that included 0% (control), 2.5 and 5% GTE for 8 weeks. Theresults showed, the addition of green tea extract did not have a positiveeffect on growth performance and other variables. Addition of green tea extractdid not change the amount of viscerosomatic index and hepatosomatic index.	Pterophyllum scalare, Green tea extract, Growth performance, Feed utilization, Biometric indexes
1037	STUDENT COMPUTER LABORATORIES WITH OPEN SOURCE TECHNOLOGIES	The increasing number of students, of course, also increases their costs. In fact, most of the expenditures are unnecessary. We can cost our laboratories, which we allocate quite a lot of budget, cheaper.For this purpose, we can use ARM based, single board small computers. Their price is very low. However, they are quite sufficient for our work. We can equip these devices with operating systems free of charge with open source software.We set up a test lab with 10 people for this, for testing. 10 people were working in our normal laboratory, also. We compared working convenience, productivity, working time and costs.Despite the high cost in normal laboratories, there was a more comfortable and enjoyable work environment in our test lab. We have worked more enthusiastically in our lab with open source software and devices. So we saw that it was more efficient.	Open Source, Freeware, Internet Of Things, ARM, Single Board Computer
1038	THE DESIGN OF A SMART ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR MICROGRIDS	Theincrease in the use of renewable energy systems in recent years has led to anincrease in the importance of work on micro-grids. In micro-grids, energy isconsumed where it is produced. This leads to a reduction in transmission andpower losses in the lines. At the same time, the negative effects of theindustrial plants that disrupt the quality of power are eliminated by themicro-grid model and more efficient and reliable grids can be established.Technological developments that impact each field have also affected theelectricity distribution grids. Problems such as inefficient energytransmission systems caused by high power losses, problems in the integrationof renewable sources into the grid, inflexible demand, and wage problems makeit difficult to meet the increasing demand with the traditional structure. Inthis study, a smart grid system was set up in the sample micro structure. Thesystem consist from a photovoltaic system with a consumer and a grid systemthat feeds this consumer. There are a photovoltaic system and also a batterygroup in the applied micro grid. The power of the photovoltaic system in themicro-grid is continuously monitored by a microcontroller. The energy levelinformation of PV panel system, the battery, and grid are supplied by voltagedivider circuits to microcontroller. The information transmitted by the voltagedividers to the microcontroller is evaluated by the control algorithm.Considering account possible possibilities, the receiver is primarily fed bythe photovoltaic system, in other cases fed from the grid or the batterysystem, thanks to the semiconductor switches used in the microcontrollercontrol. In addition, excess energy generated by the microcontroller istransferred to the main grid. As a result of this application, the level of useof the renewable energy system has been increased and the energy cost has beenreduced.	Microgrids, smartgrids, energy management system
1039	UZBEKISTAN RENEWABLE ENERGY SHORT OVERVIEW: PROGRAMS AND PROSPECTS	The use of renewable energy sources in theRepublic of Uzbekistan is relevant for the purpose of both ensuring energysecurity and improving the social and living conditions of the population. The main components ofrenewable energy in the country are solar energy, hydraulic, wind andgeothermal energy, as well as biomass energy. The total technical potential ofrenewable energy in the republic is 179.4 million tons of oil equivalent, whichis more than three times of the annual demand for energy resources.	Solar energy, renewable energy, wind power plant
1042	SOLAR DEVELOPMENT IN UZBEKISTAN. STEP 1: SOLAR DATA COMPILATION	"Solar radiation resource data serve asfundamental information for programs of large-scale deployment of solar energytechnologies. While solar resources in the Republic of Uzbekistan are estimatedto be significant based on limited information, comprehensive understandingrequires considerably more data and analysis in order to optimize the processof planning and siting solar energy power plants. This paper highlights theanalysis of the four-year of solar resource measurements from new ground meteorologicalstations in Uzbekistan which were installed within the framework of the projectof the Asian Development Bank TA 8008 ""Development of solar energy inUzbekistan"" in 2013.The current study should have significant applicationsfor preliminary technology selection, power plant modeling, and resourceforecasting. The analysis uses4-year (January 2013–December 2016) data from 6stations located in the south-eastern part of the republic based on ten-minutemeasurements of Global Horizontal Irradiance (GHI), Diffuse HorizontalIrradiance (DHI), Direct Normal Irradiance (DNI), and related meteorologicalparameters."	solar radiation, ground-based measurements, solar resources potential
1043	Application of Rural Photovoltaic Water Pumping System Using Immersed Pump and DC Motor	"Tunisia has many isolated areas characterized by low rates of populationin cores dispersed; suffering from water supply problems for consumption and irrigation.The photovoltaic pumping systems present the ideal solution for these problems. There is somes information like water flow rate,voltage and current of PV field, in addition to other meteorologicalinformation such as global solar irradiation on an inclined and horizontalsurface and ambient temperature are used in the design of a Photovoltaic WaterPumping project. The current study proposes the sizing, designing, simulation andinstallation (practice) of a solar water pumping station located in BenGuerdane -Tunisia that uses immersed pump and an AC Motor. In order to build anew station, the well, the storage tank, panels support and position of thesolar panels were redesigned using AutoCAD and SolidWorks. Finally the overallactivity of the station was simulated using Matlab Simulink."	Photovoltaic, Water pumping, Design, Simulation, Installation
1047	EXPERIMENTAL DETERMINATION OF THE MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF COMPOSITE MATERIALS PRODUCED WITH PARTICLE REINFORCED ADHESIVES	"The composite adhesives which are produced by adding particles into the structural adhesives used in aviation field as well as the latest developments in nanotechnology have given a new perspective to the design of adhesively bonded joints. In this study, the mechanical aspects of fibre glass composite materials produced with method hand lay-up by adding powder of composite material into adhesives were examined with an experimental manner under tensile load. Polyester was used as the structural adhesives; powder of fibre glass composite materials was used as additive materials at 1% or 2% by weight, and the samples of tensile were produced. The results of the experiment showed that tensile failure load was increased in the fibre glass composite material bonded with particle-reinforced adhesive. In addition, the study examined the force-displacement curves and found that the joints with nanoparticle-added adhesive had an increased displacement capacity."	Particule, Polyester, Composite material, Tensile test, Mechanical properties
1048	POTENTIAL AND ECONOMIC DIMENSION OF RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES IN DIYARBAKIR	It is considerably difficult to achieve sustainable development nowadays because non-renewable energy sources are rapidly running out of reserves due to extensive consumption. For sustainable development, serious social and environmental policies should be constituted and implemented in harmony to reduce the minimum economic and social costs of development. From this point of view, energy sources are the main axis of these policies especially in the countries with limited reserves or dependent on foreign reserves in terms of high cost imposed on the country’s economy and also the damage to the environment. High population growth, migration waves, energy-intensive new investments, technological improvements, and excessive energy consumption habits increase the energy consumption. Countries are in constant search to avoid the negative effects that may arise in economic and social life due to future energy crisis. Therefore, countries have contemporarily inclined to renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, and water. In this study, the current established capacity of solar, hydraulic, biomass, wind and geothermal energy in Diyarbakır has been studied. It is aimed to introduce the potential and economic dimension of renewable energy sources, especially solar energy in Diyarbakır.Data in regional, national and international scale have been obtained and evaluated with its economic dimension.	Renewable energy, solar energy, Diyarbakır, development, economic dimension
1049	Future Demand For Nuclear Energy In Turkey	In recent years, as a result of growingtechnological developments (in health care, military, etc.) conventional energysources are draining therefore the demand for new energy sources raises day byday. Particularly, countries those have limited conventional energy sourceshave started using nuclear energy to prevent future energy problems. Turkey isa foreign dependent country because of insufficient energy production.Especially in recent years, the need for renewable energy sources has beenincreasing day by day. In this respect, the importance of nuclear energy andthe establishment of nuclear power plants for its production will greatlyreduce the foreign dependency. Establishment of nuclear power plants willaffect many sectors like electricity, health, agriculture, military, etc.,directly and indirectly. As a result, a greater contribution will occur ineconomy and jobs in Turkey. In this study, a literature research is performedabout the necessity of nuclear energy and the establishment of nuclear powerplants in Turkey. Also, it is aimed to light the way to other researchers whowill work on this subject.	Nuclear energy, Renewable energy
1050	COMPARISON OF THE CLASSIFICATION PERFORMANCES OF CRIMINAL TENDENCIES OF SCHIZOPHRENIC PATIENTS BY ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS AND SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINE	In this study, a new approach based on Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) and Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifiers has been proposed in the determination of criminal tendency with biochemical data of schizophrenia patients. Classification was performed using the biochemical data of the offender and control group schizophrenic patients. The data were obtained from 100 schizophrenic inpatients in Elazığ mental and Neurological Disorders Hospital. The biochemical data used for the examination and classification of the criminal tendencies of schizophrenic patients were Triglycerides, Total Cholesterol, High Density Lipoproteins (HDL), Low Density Lipoproteins (LDL), Very Low Density Lipoproteins (VLDL), Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (SHBG), Oestradiol, Free Testosterone, Total Testosterone, Ghrelin, Copper (Cu) and Zinc (Zn). Biochemical data were classified using ANN and SVM. All data were normalized to before classification. In addition, classifier results were evaluated using cross-validation method. As a result of the classification performed, 87% accuracy and 89% accuracy were achieved by ANN and SVM, respectively. In the determination of the criminal tendencies of schizophrenic patients using their biochemical data, SVM classifier performed a more effective classification compared to ANN classifier. According to classification results, it was seen that the biochemical data used could be useful features in the determination of the criminal tendencies of schizophrenic patients.	Schizophrenia, Artificial neural network, Support vector machine, Classification, Criminal tendency
1061	Analysis and Design of an Axial-Flux Coreless Permanent Magnet Synchronous Generator with Single Stators and Double Rotors	In this study, permanent magnet axial-flux corelesssynchronous generator is designed as single stators and double rotors and itselectromagnetic and structural characteristics are analyzed. Core is not beenused in the stator of the machine intended to be designed. Aim of this study isto provide reduction of iron loss. Moreover, easiness in the production stageof the machine is provided. Three-dimensioned electromagnetic analysis of thedesigned machine has been done through finite element method and transientsolutions are suggested based on this. Within this study, arrangements havebeen made depending on certain standards in order that permanent magnets andcoils obtain direct alternating current. The designed new axial-flux generatormove as permanent speed of 500 rpm and so maximum voltage of approximately 100V per phase is obtained. Furthermore, this machine does not need a gear systemdue to its design structure.	Axial-flux generator, Permanent magnet, Generator, Single stator
7	Preventing Gasoline Thermal Decomposition	The trouble of reducing induction system deposition has afflicted the refining market periodically given that', 'the very early twenties when thermal breaking started to be utilized. Control of the deposit-forming properties', 'of types of gasoline by ingredients as well as via methods techniques ended up being a crucial component of', 'petroleum handling, and also it has played an essential function in enabling the development in fuels that have', 'been so required for today’s high-compression engines. During the period from the early twenties to the', 'present, the problem has varied considerably in severity and in the manner in which it has been manifested.', 'The initial surge of trouble associated with thermal cracking was eliminated first by chemical processing and', 'finally by the use of additives. This occurrence of the problem was almost entirely attributed to preformed', 'gums, which frequently exceeded 50 mg per 100 ml. With the advent of catalytic cracking, stability problems', 'were made more complex by the introduction of new types of hydrocarbons and larger quantities of', 'nonhydrocarbon constituents, particularly of the oxygenated type frequently referred to as acid oils. These', 'compounds gave false indications of stability in accelerated tests and for a time were considered to be', 'beneficial as oxidation inhibitors. For this reason, the caustic treating processes used for sulfur removal were', 'designed so that these compounds were allowed to remain in the finished gasoline. In the introduction part of', 'the review, the issues of determining the effect of the residue in gasoline on the channels through which', 'gasoline passes are discussed. In the second part, the effect of commercial antioxidants on the combustion', 'stability of gasoline is examined. Determination of new methods and features related to future methods by', 'examining the researches carried out today. The most important topic was the part where the effects of', 'gumming on engine accents and other parts of gasoline during combustion are explained.	Gasoline, induction system, thermal deposition, deposit-forming properties
8	Big Data Studies in Combating the Covid-19 Virus Outbreak: The Case of China	The coronavirus epidemic has greatly affected our lives by causing radical changes all over the world. It has caused changes in a variety of areas, from the way we work and education, to our communication and interaction methods, to our shopping behaviour. China has actively used smart technologies such as big data, artificial intelligence, cloud computing, blockchain, 5G to fight the coronavirus. Companies made their algorithms public, researchers shared data. Companies have also increased access to important video streaming tools for educators and remote workers. While its effects are continuing under various restrictions all over the world and the effects of the second wave are heavy in many countries, the epidemic has been brought under control in countries such as South Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and especially China, and life almost completely returned to normal. In this research, we aimed to investigate how the big data and artificial intelligence studies which have been applied in China are used to fight against the pandemic and the situation is taken under control by the installation of digital infrastructure, the analysis and monitoring of the data provided by the sensors and cameras.	coronavirus, covid-19, epidemic, big data studies, artificial intelligence
9	Analysis of pondings caused by rainfall in agricultural areas by using Sentinel-1 satellite images	"In this study, the rainfall that was effective between 24.12.2019 - 08.01.2020 in Adana was analyzed together with the daily total precipitation data from 18 Automatic Meteorological Observation Stations located within and around the study area. The study area consists of the central districts of Adana province; Seyhan, Çukurova, Sarıçam and Yüreğir and the district of Karataş. The pondings in the districts mentioned due to these precipitations were analyzed using Sentinel-1 satellite images. Three different images were used as a satellite image in the study; before the precipitation (09.12.2019), during the precipitation (02.01.2020) and at the end of the precipitation (08.01.2020). In addition, the change of soil moisture in the region with precipitation was also examined. Soil Moisture Active Passive (SMAP) was used as a soil moisture data source. In the study; the effects of altitude, slope, soil structure, soil moisture and precipitation on pondings were investigated. Precipitation increased soil moisture up to 2 times, and therefore it is thought that it helped pondings due to the decrease of leakage capacity of the soil. According to the analyses, in regions where ponding is intense; it has been mostly determined that the hydrological soil group is “D” and the slope is below 1%."	Adana, Sentinel-1 SAR, SMAP, Hydrologic soil group, Soil moisture, Flood
17	Process improvement applications for a cargo company	In this study, system analysis and improvement applications in a cargo company have been considered and some problems have been detected in the company`s current system. In the content of this study, multi-criteria decision-making methods have been implemented to select a vehicle and intra-vehicle shelf type to solve problems about space usage, time losses and package damage due to incorrect vehicle type and absence of intra-vehicle shelf. Besides, to minimize transportation costs which impose significant expenses to the company, the vehicle routing problem is considered with the help of the GAMS (General Algebraic Modelling System) program. In vehicle routing problem, it is aimed at one transfer center to eighteen branches, under the demand, amount of vehicle and capacity of vehicle constraints. While concerning the set of problems that exist in the company`s current system, it`s attempted to provide a more effective system.	System Analysis and Improvement, Vehicle Route Problem, GAMS, Multi-Criteria Decision Making
18	Assessment of hazards and risks in glass products production and processing business during the pandemic	IIn this study, the hazards in a medium-sized enterprise engaged in production and processing of glass products in Turkey and the risks they pose are identified. Then, using cross-sectional research, a physical, chemical and biological risk report was created by L-type matrix method. During this reporting, hazards caused by Covid-19, which has been declared as pandemic by World Health Organization and became the biggest health problem in the world today, and regulatory and preventive actions that can be taken against these hazards are widely covered. The aim of the study is to contribute to the industry in terms of taking measures against occupational accidents and diseases.	Glass industry, Occupational safety, Hazard, Risk analysis, Covid-19, Pandemic
37	"Employment in Fisheries and Aquaculture Sectors Under the Concept of ""Decent Work"""	In this study, employment in fisheries and aquaculture sectors in Turkey was evaluated in the light of the available data under the concept of “decent work”.', 'Decent work is expressed as working conditions decent to human dignity in accordance with occupational health and safety, having the opportunity to be represented through the union with social security opportunities, no forced and child labor, getting the deserved wages for work, in short, the realization of the basic rights and principles regarding work in a tripartite agreement consisting of the government, worker and employer. It is also reported that one of the four basic elements of decent work is employment recruitment.', 'With increasing awareness in developed societies, fish consumers demand that the fish on their plates are produced in a manner consistent with not only environmental sustainability, but also decent work practices.', 'Fisheries and aquaculture includes pre-harvest activities such as boat building, providing support services in repair and maintenance workshops located in ports, shelters and docks. Although these activities do not cover as much work as post-harvest, they still constitute an important workforce.', 'When fisheries production was examined in Turkey, fluctuations in the amount of fisheries and continuously increased production in aquaculture in recent years was observed. While the sector shows uncertainty in terms of employment in the fisheries and processing for the coming years, it is thought that there will be an increase in employment with the introduction of new potential areas in aquaculture and capacity upgrades of existing production areas.	Aquaculture and Fisheries Production, Decent Work, Blue Growth Initiative, Employment
45	Nutritional Composition of Protein Hydrolyzate Produced from Fish Waste	Fish by-products are valuable resources with great potential for human consumption. Fish protein hydrolysates (FPH) are used as a functional food, animal feed, organic fertilizer, and pet food as commercial products, as well as in the medicine and pharmacology sector as they show antihypertensive, antithrombotic, anticancer, immunomodulatory, and antioxidant activities with the nutraceutical properties they contain. They can be an important source for obtaining high value-added products such as protein, amino acids, collagen, gelatin, and fat. It will contribute to the sustainability of aquaculture. The quality and functional properties of the product obtained by changing the waste, enzyme and production conditions used to differ. Proteases show the ability to produce low molecular weight peptides by a high rate of hydrolysis. The amino acid composition of fish protein hydrolysates is important due to its impact on nutritional value and functional properties. The protein quality of food and its capacity to meet the needs of organisms is determined by the essential amino acids that food has. Many researchers have reported that the amino acid content of fish protein hydrolysates varies according to the species of fish and the type of enzyme. In this article, the properties of fish protein hydrolysates obtained according to different fish waste composition, enzyme concentration, temperature, time, and ph conditions were investigated.	Fish protein hydrolysate, amino acid, nutritional composition, sds-page
46	The First Occurrence of the Pen Shell Pinna nobilis (Linnaeus, 1758) in the Samandağ coast, the northeastern Mediterranean	Pinna nobilis is distributed in the northwest area of the Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea. In this study, on 9 September 2020, one specimen of Pinna nobilis, the pen shell, was observed during scuba diving at a depth of 16 m off Samandag coast (36.259444° N, 35.810111° E), the northeastern Mediterranean Sea. In this study, we observed for the first time P. nobilis from the Mediterranean Coast of Turkey, the Samandag coast. In this region, the presence of P. nobilis has never been previously recorded, and this new record confirms the presence of a new location in the Mediterranean Sea.	Pinna nobilis, record, pen shell, critically endangered, IUCN Red List
47	Analysis of Ship Accidents in Turkish Territories: A Data Mining Application	Maritime transportation which mediates the transmission of major part of the world’s trading volume is a type of transportation with high probability of encountering dangerous situations due to the instability of its conditions. In the past years, it became clear that the even smallest negativity caused perilous results. Thus, accurate implementation and evaluation of sea accident analysis is important to establish a policy for developing preventive measures and increasing awareness by determining the reason of accident. Analysis of sea accidents forms the fundamental subject of the study with data mining method which allow us to make estimated aand definitive interpretations with computer programs by accessing significant information within large data stacks. In this study sea accidents occurring in Turkish territorial waters have been reviewed. In this context, the purpose of the study consists of determining which factors conduct together in sea accidents by association rule which is one of analysis methods of datamining. As a result of analysis, it has been determined that ship’s loading condition, existence of maritime pilot in the ship, conditions of equipments such as bow thruster and quarterdeck thruster, ship flag and type and meteorological elements have been effective factors on the subject.	Data Mining, Turkish Territorial Waters, Marine Accidents, Marine Safety, Association Rule
48	Digital Compass Calibration Using Particle Swarm Optimization and Least Squares Method	Recently, electronic compass sensors have become very common, due to their small size and low price. Sensor output information turns out to be incorrect if the magnetometers and accelerometers in the structure of these sensors are not calibrated. The main reason for such an error could be the slope value that is generated because of not placing the sensor parallel to the ground. Moreover, zero value inequalities between the axes of multi-axis sensors, offset errors, and scaling errors cause drift in the compass sensor output. In order to fix the problems, the study uses the methods of Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm and Least Squares for the calibration of magnetometer and accelerometer. The results indicate that the calibration process can be successfully performed using these methods.	Compass, Calibration, Particle Swarm Optimization, Least Squares, IMU
49	Investigation of Unit Fishing Power and Economic Structure of Trawlers in Sinop Province	"The research was carried out in the 2018-2019 fishing season in order to reveal the economic status of trawling boats in Sinop Province.', 'The contribution of the trawler boats registered in Sinop to the fishing activity, the determination of the unit fishing power, economic analysis and the income and expense table of Sinop trawl fishing were determined. With the findings obtained from the result of the research, successful or weak points of Sinop trawl fisheries were tried to be determined. Twenty-one trawlers registered in Sinop Province were identified, and 8 randomly active bottom trawlers among them were studied through face-to-face interviews and questionnaires. The three boats that refused to share data were removed and the remaining 5 boats were evaluated as primary data.', 'Gross yields of trawlers examined in the scope of the study were as follows; 563990 TL; 471075 TL; 488405 TL; 644155 TL and 300675 TL, the total annual operating costs are respectively; TL 497606; TL 428647; TL 438647; TL 510801 and TL 268852 respectively, with net profits of the following; 66384 TL; 42995 TL; 49758 TL; 133354 TL and 31823 TL respectively.', 'As a result of the study, it was found that the sampled boats were profitable in the 2018-2019 fishing season."	Trawlers, Unit Hunting Power, Sinop, Fishing
52	Measures To Be Taken and Solution Suggestions For Military Units Working in Cold and Winter Conditions	Although the Turkish Armed Forces and protect our country against foreign enemy countries, as the law enforcement forces within our borders are responsible for the internal security operation together with the gendarmerie units and the Police Order, many negatives and occupational accidents are encountered because their duties are dangerous accidents. These negatives cause job inefficiency and morale in both the staff and the command level. Gendarmerie units have an accident prevention system, such as the police accident prevention officer, which entered into force in 1961. However, developing technology, human-machine designs, command, and command hierarchy lose the functionality of this system. This system should be updated to prevent occupational accidents that occur as measures in the field of occupational health and safety.	Avalanche, Gendarmerie, Work Safety, Winter
53	Characterization of Rhodamine 123-Labeled Boron Nitride Nanoparticles and Investigation of in vitro Bioimaging Potential	The aim of this study is to label boron nitride (BN) nanoparticles with a fluorescent dye, rhodamine 123 (Rd), and to investigate its use for bioimaging in vitro condition. First, BN-Rd nanoparticles were produced by binding rhodamine 123 tag to boron nitride nanoparticles via glutaraldehyde crosslinker and characterized by SEM, UV-visible spectroscopy, MTT cell proliferation test, light microscope and fluorescence microscope analyses. BN-Rd nanoparticles at non-cytotoxic concentrations were applied on human prostate cancer cells (PC-3) and human embriyonic kidney cells (HEK-293) and the bioimaging potential of BN-Rd was investigated in vitro by examining the cells under fluorescence microscopy. As a result, BN and BN-Rd, which were determined to have a size of ~40 nm in SEM analysis, showed a cytotoxic effect at concentrations of 30 µg/ml and above. The nanoparticle-treated cell morphologies examined under a light microscope was found to support MTT results. It was observed that BN-Rd, at a concentration of 10 µg/ml applied on both cell lines interacted with the cells and the cells fluoresced under a fluorescence microscope in vitro. In the light of the findings obtained from this study, the potential use of boron nitride nanoparticles labeled with rhodamine 123 fluorescent dye in bioimaging applications has been revealed.	Boron Nitride Nanoparticles, Rhodamine 123, Bioimaging
54	Prediction of Crime Occurrence in case of Scarcity of Labeled Data	In line with technological developments, machine learning/data mining studies have significantly scaled up in crime analysis. The prediction of crime occurrences, the detection of the spatial/temporal distribution of the criminal cases, forecasting the type of crime are some of these study areas. By taking crime data resulting from a substantial increase in crime rates into consideration, unlabeled data can be utilized to enhance exploring the patterns of crime for future events or to make crime-related predictions easily. Therefore, in this study, active learning, self-learning, and random sampling techniques are applied to predict the outcome of criminal searches in England using the police data of 2019. According to the experimental analysis, active learning outperforms its counterparts using its entropy-based smart selection strategy data in case there is little labeled data.	Active Learning, Classification, Crime Detection, Random Sampling, Semi-Supervised Learning, Self-Learning
55	Vehicle Powertrain Connected Green Routing for Hybrid and Electrified Vehicles	This study proposes a new approach to traditional navigation systems that are now widely used. Conventional navigation systems offer drivers the choice of the shortest distance, the shortest time, or the most preferred routes when determining the optimal route. The optimum route in line with these options does not ensure that the gas emissions that are harmful to the environment are kept to a minimum. Especially, in the case of advanced vehicles such as hybrid and electric vehicles, the factors affecting the determination of the optimum route are subject to change. For this reason, a framework called “Vehicle Powertrain Connected Green Route Optimization” has been proposed to integrate inputs such as vehicle powertrain dynamics, component efficiencies, control modes, initial status and traffic conditions to route optimization. The objective function of route optimization problem is determined as lowest ?CO?_2 emission and Dijkstra algorithm is used as solution method. In addition, the proposed strategy reduces the amount of ?CO?_2 emissions and the effect on the route change for different vehicle powertrains such as CV, HEV, PHEV and BEV were analyzed. Using the proposed optimization algorithm for conventional and electric vehicles, respectively, compared to the shortest distance algorithm, approximately 80% and 60% of the journeys have new optimal routes. In addition, the proposed strategy saves up to 60% and 30% emissions for CVs and electric vehicles, respectively, compared to the shortest route strategy.	Vehicle Powertrain Connected Green Route Optimization, Electric and Hybrid Vehicles, Navigation, Eco-routing
56	Attenuation Relationship for Peak Horizontal Acceleration from Ground and Earthquake Parameters	In this study, the value of the peak horizontal ground acceleration occurred in the earthquake and which is an important parameter for the engineering structures was estimated. Most of the researchers working on the peak horizontal ground acceleration value subject used only earthquake parameters and few used ground parameters in their empirical relationships. As known, the value of the peak horizontal ground acceleration varies depending on the properties of the ground. Therefore, a new multi-parameters attenuation relationship for peak horizontal acceleration was obtained by using both the dynamic parameters of the soil and the earthquake parameters. In this relationship, magnitude, period and source distance of the earthquake are used as earthquake parameters, and soil magnification, soil predominant period, weighted averages of P and S wave velocities for 30m depth (Vp30 and Vs30) are used as dynamic parameters of the ground. In this context, the data obtained from dynamic parameters of station ground and from results of 152 earthquake records of Mw=5.3-7.1 magnitudes obtained from different stations in the world were formed as data set. The empirical attenuation relationship developed within the scope of the study was compared with that of other researchers in the literature and a lower RMSE error was obtained.	Horizontal ground acceleration, Magnitude, Distance, Soil amplification, Seismic P and S wave velocities
57	Supplier Selection With Fuzzy Multi-Criteria Decision-Making Techniques: An Example Of Tractor Factory	"Nowadays, the concept of supply chain is one of the factors that ensure the reputation of companies in the market as a result of the increase in strategic competition in the business world with elements such as quality, cost and performance. It is difficult to say that the decisions taken for ""supplier selection"", which is the first step of the chain, are correct. Because it is necessary to find the most suitable supplier among the alternatives that fulfill different purposes. In this study, Turkey's agricultural vehicles are considered a company owned supplier selection problems that made the production. Multiple Criteria Decision Making Methods in the Literature; they differ in computing time, simplicity and reliability. The methods used in the study were chosen to be good, moderate and poor in terms of reliability. Since definitive judgments cannot be reached in evaluating alternatives according to criteria in supplier selection, classical logic will not be sufficient. Therefore, all methods are used in a blurry way. The first solution is Fuzzy AHP, the second solution is the integrated Fuzzy DEMATEL-Fuzzy TOPSIS, and the last solution is the integrated Fuzzy AHP-Fuzzy MOORA, were discussed and the results were compared. One of the aims of the study is to show that the results obtained from the integrated use of methods may differ from the results of commonly used methods. For this reason, no superiority was found among the solutions."	Multiple Criteria Decision Making, Supplier Selection, Fuzzy AHP, Fuzzy DEMATEL, Fuzzy TOPSIS, Fuzzy MOORA
58	Optimization of Scrap Handling Machine Lifting and Breaking Boom by Finite Element Analysis Method	Material handling machines are also frequently used in the fields where the machines in the recycling facilities work. The two most important factors in determining the capacity in material handling machines are the length of the machine booms and the load capacity the machine can handle. The increase in the length of the boom and with it the increase in the lifting capacity make the design difficult. In this study, it is aimed to design booms with 2 degrees of freedom that can lift 3.5 tons at 14 meters, which is the fully open state of the booms of the scrap handling machine. In this context, first of all, the kinematic analysis of the material handling machine was made and made suitable in terms of capacity. The strength optimization of the booms of the machine, which has been adapted in terms of capacity, was performed by ANSYS, which is a finite element analysis method according to the flow diagram created.	Recycling, Handling, Design, Finite Element Analysis, Material Handling Machine
59	An Investigation on the Cooling System of Synchronous Motor for Electric Buses	Due to the increase of the electric vehicle market, the mileage of the electric vehicle with full battery gets importance. The ambient temperature or the abuse driving conditions directly affects the mileage of the electric vehicle. To increase the mileage, the analysis of the thermal management system of the electric vehicle should be studied well. Besides the battery, one of the most important components of an electric vehicle is the synchronous motor. Thus, this study focused on the cooling methodology of permanent magnet synchronous motor which is limited in the literature. The cooling methodology of the synchronous motor directly affects battery performance. To analyze the thermal management system of an electric vehicle, analyzing the synchronous motor cooling water circulation methodology is taken into account and numerical simulations are validated by experimental results with 0.2% error. The effect of the mass flow rate of the motor coolant on the pressure drop is also analyzed.	Synchronous Motor, Cooling System, Electric Vehicle, Liquid Cooling, Permanent Magnet Electrical Machines
60	Diagnosis of Glaucoma Disease using Convolutional Neural Network Architectures	Glaucoma is a disease that damages the optic nerve, often due to increased intraocular pressure, and is a common cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. However, if the disease can be detected in the early period, vision loss can be prevented. Today, the diagnosis of glaucoma disease can be made with the help of computer-aided systems using advanced artificial intelligence techniques. In this study, deep convolutional neural networks were used for automatic glaucoma detection using digital fundus images of a newly created large-scale data set. VGG16, Inception-V3, EfficientNet, DenseNet, ResNet50 and MobileNet architectures which are the most frequently used architectures in classification problems were selected. As a result of experimental studies, it was seen that the DenseNet architecture achieved the highest accuracy rate with 96.19%. The findings have proven that convolutional neural networks are a successful methods on classification of normal and glaucoma images.	Glaucoma, Deep learning, Convolutional neural networks, Transfer Learning
61	A Review on Locating the Electric Vehicle Charging Stations and Their Effect on the Energy Network	Electric vehicles, whose sales figures are growing rapidly in many countries of the world, have had a rising trend in the automotive industry in the last decade. Having an important place in the widespread use of electric vehicles, fast charging stations can quickly recharge electric vehicles in a very short time. Today's electric vehicles have larger battery capacities and their charging capacities have increased significantly compared to the first electric vehicles. Charging many electric vehicles at the same time or in unforeseen time periods causes huge differences in electricity supply and demand. When the charging stations are installed without considering these differences, vehicles charging at high speeds can cause voltage imbalance and power losses and adversely affect the energy network. It is of great importance that both the precautions and investment decisions to be taken in the network and the fast charging stations are located in the right place due to their possible adverse impact on the network. With this study, the prominent studies in the last decade on electric vehicle charging systems and the effects of these systems on the energy network have been examined in detail. As a result, data on the locating charging stations to the most appropriate point by reducing their effect on the energy network is presented.	Electric Vehicle Charging Stations, Locating Charging Stations, Impact of Charging Stations on the Energy Grid
62	The performance analyses of support vector machine classifiers for examination of the temporal change of land-use/cover in the Beyşehir Basin in Turkey (1984-2018)	This study aimed to investigate the temporal change in land-use/cover in the Beyşehir-Kaşaklı Subbasin, which is one of the nine subbasins of the Konya Closed Basin and known as the largest closed basin in Turkey, using Remote Sensing and Geographic Information Systems techniques. For this purpose, in the study, Landsat Thematic Mapper, Enhanced Thematic Mapper, and Operational Land Imager digital satellite images obtained in the years 1984, 1990, 1996, 2000, 2006, 2012, and 2018 were used. The Support Vector Machines (SVM) method was applied as the classification method. In order to apply the SVM method, firstly, the kernel function and parameter set, giving the highest accuracy in the classification, were selected. In the study, four different kernel functions and different parameter sets were experienced as different from each other. Seventy-two different models in total were applied using different combinations of parameters. As a result of the trials of seventy-two different parameters, it was concluded that the method and algorithm giving the most accurate result with 83.81% classification accuracy and 0.7949 Kappa statistics were the polynomial function of SVMs. As a result of the classification process examined the period between 1984 and 2018 using the determined algorithm and parameters, it was detected that artificial surfaces increased by 418%, arable agricultural lands and pastures decreased by 14%, forests and semi-natural areas increased by 4%, and coastal wetlands on the coasts increased by 6%. On the other hand, the surface area of the water bodies in the region, which demonstrated a decreasing trend until the year 2003, was determined to increase by 3% with the establishment of Suğla Storage in 2003.	Beyşehir lake, Geographic information systems, Landsat, Support vector machines, Sustainable land management, Remote sensing
63	Investigation of sea level variations in Turkish coasts using GNSS reflectometry	Determination of the sea level changes and understanding the causes of changes are important in climate change studies at global and regional scales. The Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) signals have some characteristics that can be used for the remote sensing applications. GNSS Reflectometry (GNSS-R) technique that allows GNSS-based sea level determination is new and open to improvement. This study aims to investigate the contribution to the GNSS stations located in the different coasts of Turkey to determination of sea level by using GNSS-R. For this purpose, utilized existing the Signal to noise ratio (SNR) data from ANMU, DATC, FASA, SINP and TEKR of TUSAGA-Active network, MERS from IGS network and SAME constituted from TUBITAK 1001 project GNSS stations. The dominant multipath frequency of SNR signal was computed with Lomb-Scargle periodogram (LSP). Consequently, MERS and TEKR stations were found to be suitable for sea level determination by using GNSS-R because these stations have a strong reflection amplitudes and significant observations. The GNSS-based sea level results for these stations were compared to sea level observations from nearby tide gauges. The comparison shows a agreement with a correlation coefficient of 0.76 and 0.91, respectively.	Sea level, GNSS reflectometry, Signal to noise ratio, Lomb-Scarge periodogram
65	Selecting a Supplier for a Bus Operation	Competition is increasing day by day in today's business world. Therefore, it is necessary to choose the right supplier. In the public transportation sector, which has an important place in the city choosing the right vehicles is great also important. We studied the problem of supplier selection and institution in İstanbul. In this context, multi-criteria decision-making methods have been used. In cases where there is more than one criterion, choosing multi-criteria decision-making techniques offers great convenience to the decision-makers. In the first stage, criterion weights were obtained using the Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) method. In the second stage, the most appropriate alternative was selected using the Promethee method. According to the results obtained using these methods, the most suitable bus supply brand for the institution has been determined. We hoped these results will contribute to increasing the efficiency of the institutions by analyzing the important elements in the public transportation system and the supplier selection process. The model and the criteria used realized in this study can be useful as a guide for decision-makers.	multiple criteria decision making, supplier selection, analytical hierarchy process, Promethee
67	Evaluation of Occupational Safety Knowledge Levels of Teachers Working at Secondary Schools in Çanakkale	In this study, the occupational safety knowledge levels of teachers working in secondary schools in Çanakkale province were evaluated considering different demographic characteristics. Within the scope of the study, a new scale was prepared by scanning the resources from quantitative research techniques and this scale was presented to the participants with the questionnaire technique. The survey data were analyzed with the SPSS 24.0 package program, and it was observed that the occupational health and safety knowledge levels of male teachers were higher than female teachers. In addition, it was observed that the occupational health and safety knowledge levels of teachers increased with the increase in their years of service.	Occupational Health and Safety, Secondary Schools, Employee Health, Occupational Safety, Awareness.
68	Passive Fire Safety Measures of Hospitals: Comparison of National and International Legislation	Hospitals are the institutions with higher user load and fire load due to the number of students, patients and visitors working. In addition, in hospitals, polyclinics, classrooms, laboratories, dining hall, offices, kitchen, boiler room, attic, archive, electrical installations and oxygen systems are gathered under one roof. For this reason, fire is a big risk in hospitals and it can be eliminated or minimized by designing in accordance with passive systems which play an important role in building design. In this study, passive fire safety measures taken in hospitals were evaluated according to both national and international fire safety regulations. In this study, passive fire safety measures in hospitals were compared according to the fourteen regulation on Turkey fire protection and international fire safety regulations such as the United States standard and the British building standard. All items are described in detail in the NFPA fire safety measures, which is the United States Standard. However, only four clause out of 14 clause were included in the other two regulations. Since there are special provisions for the sub-departments of hospitals in the United States standard fire as NFPA safety precautions legislation, the deficiencies in our national legislation can be eliminated by using the international standard.	Fire, Hospital fires, Passive Fire Precautions
70	Determination of Proactive and Reactive Measures Using the Bowtie Model Risk Assessment Method, Storage Sample	Work carried out and services performed to ensure the health, safety and security of all living and non-living things in the workplace ecosystem are defined as occupational health and safety. The purpose of occupational health and safety is to prevent the hazards that cause near-miss incidents, occupational acci-dents and occupational diseases from turning into risks by using various tools and to control and review the risks arising from danger under control and it is the preservation and continuity of the physical, spiritual and socail well-being of living and non-living beings. There are many different risk assessment methods used in workplaces. In this study, comprehensive information was given about the Bow Tie Model and a sample study was carried out in the warehouse where the food and beverage materials were used using the bow tie model. The most basic tool used in occupational health and safety studies in workplaces is risk assess-ment. The bowtie model risk assessment method is a study to determine the precautions and restrictive measures that must be taken before the hazards turn into risks after the hazards are identified, and the measures and restrictive measures to reduce the damage after the danger turns into risk and prevent the risk from recurring, and it is easy to apply to warehouses.	Bow Tie Model, Occupational Helath and Safety, Reactive, Proactive, Risk Analysis
71	A New Approach in Safety Culture: Safety Coaching	There are many parameters that affect the safety culture, which is a part of the organizational culture. The most important of these are the values, beliefs and assumptions of the employees. It will be necessary to analyze behavior of employee and study on unsafe behaviors in building and developing a safety culture. At this point, coaching comes into play. With the safety coaching to be applied to contribute to the safety culture in a workplace, it can be ensured that both the employer and the employees adopt this culture and establish a trust-based communication. Instead of the order control approach from top-down, the safety coaching approach enables individuals to discover their potential by taking their values into account. In this study, an extensive literature search was conducted on safety culture, behavior based safety, human factors analysis and classification system, coaching and safety coaching. The contribution of safety coaching to high performance safety culture was discussed. At the same time, a systematic approach has been put forward in which safety coaching, behavior based safety and human factors analysis and classification system can be used together	Koçluk, Güvenlik koçluğu, Güvenlik kültürü, Davranış odaklı güvenlik, İnsan faktörü analizi ve sınıflandırma sistemi
76	An Investigation of 3th July 2020 Fireworks Factory Explosion by Using Seismic-Acoustic Records in Sakarya, District of Hendek	On 03 July 2020, a few explosions occurred consecutively in the factory at Büyük Coşkunlar Piroteknik Chemistry Industry Fireworks Toys Marketing Inc. company’s factory, operating in Tepeaçma location in the Yukarı Çamlıca quarter of the Hendek district and as a result 7 people died in the incident. In the written and visual media, it is stated that the explosions were felt strongly in an area of 50 km diameter. In addition to the physical effects of explosions, such as air-blast shock waves and crater, vibrations occur due to explosions in the earth similar to earthquakes and these vibrations are recorded by earthquake monitoring stations. These vibrations consist of two main wave phases. The first of these are seismic waves and the second is acoustic waves. The origin and time of explosions can be determined from seismic waves and the type and quantity of explosives can be determined from acoustic waves within minutes before going to the scene and while the crisis environment continues. This finding is extremely important in the investigation of accidents or terrorist attacks and in emergency management. For this reason, different engineering disciplines need to work together to determine the time, cause and size of explosions. In this article, chronological times of explosions calculated by using seismic records were surveyed and the amounts of pyrotechnic materials detonated in explosions were calculated. The amounts of pyrotechnic materials that exploded were calculated according to the diameter of the crater formed as a result of the explosions. Finally, the amount of pyrotechnic materials detonated were calculated by estimating the air shock pressure caused by the explosion due to the damage in the surrounding settlements. The results obtained according to the crater diameters and air shock pressure were compared with the quantities calculated using seismic-acoustic records. As a result of all these evaluations, the detonation velocities of the exploded pyrotechnic materials were calculated	PYROTECHNICS, EXPLOSİON, SISMIC-ACUSTIC RECORD, EXPLOSIVE WEIGHT, DETONATION VELOCITY, TNT, FIREWORK
79	Investigation of Properties of High Density Polyethylene/Pinna Nobilis Poymer Composites	In this study, pinna nobilis, a shellfish such as oyster or mussel, was added into high density polyethylene in the ratio of 10-20-30 and 40%, and blends were made in extrusion and a polymer composite was obtained. Various test samples were molded from the obtained polymer composites in accordance with the standards in the injection molding machine. The burning behavior of the polymer composite was determined by conducting UL 94, limit oxygen index and glow wire tests. In addition, it has been reported how elastic modulus, yield strength, tensile strength, % elongation value, Izod impact strength value, hardness and density values change with the increase of pinna nobilis ratio. In addition to these, the adhesion and distribution of polyethylene and pinna nobilis particles were determined by taking fracture surface photographs with scanning electron microscopy.	Polyethylene, Pinna Nobilis, UL 94, Limit Oxygen Index, Mechanical Properties
80	EMOTION ANALYSIS STUDY ON CORONA VIRUS USING SOCIAL NETWORK BASED DATA	Developments in communication technologies have made social media the focal point of social life. People freely share their opinions and comments on any subject, product on social media. Especially, the distance rule for interpersonal communications during the pandemic period has intensified the flow of data on social media, shifted business models to the social media environment and bring up ergonomic conditions. The effects of the corona virus epidemic, which is the most important agenda of today, on public life constitute the people's intensified thoughts about the epidemic. Therefore, an analysis study was conducted on the reflection of the pandemic process on ergonomic conditions and social life. In this study, it was tried to keep the pulse of the society on the corona virus epidemic by using emotion analysis techniques of text mining. Since the data subject to sentiment analysis are the opinions of individuals, tweet data, in which people can freely share their thoughts and moods on social media, was selected as the study data source. While tweet data is usually short in length, texts can contain linguistic errors. In addition, the texts contain irony and emojis, making text analysis processes difficult. The fact that text analysis needs correct data in order to produce correct results requires the application of data analysis processes to the data before analysis. With these features, analysis of tweet data with natural language processing techniques emerges as an important field of study. For this reason, the tweet data shared by people related to the corona virus selected as the subject of the study on social networks were collected with an application written in phyton. These data were first cleaned with various linguistic techniques specific to Turkish, then were processed by dictionary-based, bert and machine learning emotion analysis techniques. The results obtained and the sensitivity analysis of the results are presented comparatively.	Sentiment Analysis, Corona, Ergonomic, Dictionary Based, Bert
81	WORKING AT HEIGHT IN FOREST: MEASURES TO IMPROVE SAFETY PERFORMANCE OF FORESTRY WORKERS “TREE CLIMBERS”	Tree climbing in forestry is a task performed for diverse purposes. Being one of the most risky works, it may include various activities from pruning, making connection, cutting down a tree in one or more pieces to collecting seeds or non-wood forest products etc. Persons subjected to the study were self-trained villagers since their childhood and had enough experience as forest worker. These persons were lack of proper training, safety and technical equipment. The objective of this study was to train those “tree climbers” in terms of organization, ergonomic work equipment, personal protection equipment and safe working techniques. A risk assessment study was held along with the tree climbers by watching the visuals in field and office. In this risk assessment by matrix method, dangers such as contact with the chain of chainsaws, noise, vibration, falling/sprung objects, working at height, slippery stem/branch, breaking of branches workers stand on, cutting/breaking off ropes, falling chainsaw down, breaking off rope connections etc. were determined. Measures to prevent dangers causing high risks such as death by falling down, fractures in bones, cuts, head trauma and hearing loss were discussed. Persons dealing with such forest work were also trained at Training and Experimental Forest of Istanbul University- Cerrahpasa and Kastamonu-Tosya Forests with respect to organizational and operational behavior change. In conclusion, risks such as falling down, cut and slipping were eliminated and daily work performance increased by 20%.	Tree climbing, Pruning, Occupational safety, Personal protection equipment, Ergonomics
82	EVALUATION AND SELECTION OF INDUSTRIAL WEARABLE TECHNOLOGIES WITH MCDM METHODS	With the start of the Industry 4.0 era, factories switched to the smart production stage. This transition has benefited from the human-machine journey of improvable technologies. Smart glasses can be used in an important place in this industry. The fact that smart glasses are a suitable base for augmented reality (AR) applications is another factor that increases smart glasses. Competition between companies has increased as the leading companies of the sector have started to work such as smart glasses production, maintenance and logistics, quality control, design and working class. The selection of smart glasses to be made by the companies can be the spokesperson of the promotional smart glasses for great value to the company. The problem of choosing the most suitable smart glasses that can be used in this market has been addressed. 7 different smart glasses, which are the pioneers of the problem supply sector, were discussed. Submit these alternatives as criteria for product cost, battery life, ergonomics, internal memory capacity and field of view features for the product. These criteria are evaluated with alternatives, multi-criteria decision making (MCDM) methods. Carrying criterion weights with Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) method. These weights were used in Order Preference Based on Similarity to Ideal Solutions (TOPSIS) and Preference Order Organization Enrichment Assessment Method (PROMETHEE) method solutions. With the solution, the best alternative in the PROMETHEE method was Magic Leap One, while the best alternative Google Glass Enterprise Edition 2 was made in the TOPSIS method.	Smart glasses, Industrial wearable technology, AHP, TOPSIS, PROMETHEE
83	EVALUATION OF URBAN INTERACTIVE KIOSKS CENTERED ON INTERFACE ERGONOMY AND USER EXPERIENCE	As a result of technological progress, interactive kiosks maintain various services with consistency for public use. In contemporary life, kiosks provide services that speed up daily operations with their informative, explanatory and regulative content. The study centers on interactive service kiosks as examples of technology based applications in urban planning as well as being hybrid interactive products of an interdisciplinary approach consisting of industrial design, service design and urban design. The study based on a qualitative approach covers the evaluation of the interaction types, service goals and content related information of kiosks used for public services evaluating the products in terms of interface ergonomics and aesthetical features forming user experience. Following the explanation of essential literature input that constitutes the study, concepts related to interface ergonomics and virtual ergonomic features of kiosk are elaborated with the inclusion of the project discussed. In the discussion section aligned with the goals of the study, the service kiosk designed for the Istanbul Aquarium with the participation of the author is presented, explained and evaluated in order to create a connection and comparison with the examples provided. By achieving an essential foundation for the comparison, the study aims to determine the similarities and differences between the kiosks built for public and private use by applying the same evaluation criteria on the service kiosk selected for the laboratory process.	Digital Kiosks, Ergonomics, Interaction, Interface Design, User Experience
84	ERGONOMIC DESIGN OF THE WORKPLACE FOR FINAL QUALITY CONTROL	The incidence of work-related musculoskeletal disorders remains high and, as these injuries have a high cost for companies and society, it is important to prevent them through ergonomic analysis and workplace design. During the work process, we are always looking to reduce lost time and improve the quality of work. From an ergonomic point of view, it is important to determine what workloads employees are exposed to and to eliminate or at least minimise them by redesigning the workplace.   The aim of our research was to minimise the risk at work through the scientific design of workplaces based on a methodological approach. The manual and computerised OWAS method was used to determine and estimate body postures during the workday. It was found that certain postures resulted in significant overexertion, which meant that certain remedial actions were necessary during the work process to prevent possible damage to the body. Several improvements were proposed for the new workplace design: appropriate equipment for workers, lifting table, rotation of workers, construction of quality control facilities and automation of macro tasks.	Workplace design, Ergonomic analysis, OWAS method
86	Temporal and Spatial Change of Land Use: The Case of Nazilli District	"Today, unplanned urbanization has gained increasing momentum as a result of rapid population growth and distorted construction. In order to prevent this, it is of great importance to determine the current situation of the land uses by determining them temporally and spatially. Its’ one of the most convenient and realistic ways is landuse change monitoring techniques using satellite images. In this study, satellite images were analyzed by using Geographical Information Systems in Nazilli District of Aydın province (approximately 2919 ha), spatial and temporal changes of land cover/land use (LC/LU) were determined. Using the Google Earth satellite imagery of the district in 2004 and 2019, manual classification was made with ArcGIS 10.5 program, five main LC/LU classes were created and digitized. The data obtained were compared and the change of LC/LU of the district center in 15 years period was determined. According to the results; while the agricultural areas had an area of 1643,80 ha in 2004, these areas were calculated as 1243,96 ha in 2019. The residential and industrial areas which were 996,31 ha in 2004 increased to 1139,38 ha in 2019. The total amount of active and passive green areas in the area increased from 215.06ha in 2004 to 327.40ha in 2019. In the research, the reasons of this change were examined and suggestions were made."	Land use, land cover, geographical information systems, Nazilli, landscape change, remote sensing
92	A Review Study on Battery Management Systems in Electric Vehicles	Due to concerns about global warming, environmental damages from fossil fuels, and greenhouse gas emissions, electric vehicles have been taken place of internal combustion motor vehicles day by day. Being the main energy source for electric vehicles, the batteries have some limitations to give certain operations for safe driving. The battery management systems (BMSs) play a vital role in order to overcome these limitations, protect the battery and ensure more reliable driving for electric vehicles. This paper reviews the papers about the battery management system and its sub-issues including battery monitoring, battery safety, vehicle internal-external communication, cell balancing, state estimations, thermal management, and topologies. The methods about such issues have been compared in terms of merits-demerits and qualitative factors. Since electric vehicles will be the transportation vehicles for the future and domestic production has been started in our country, the authors consider that it is necessary to improve the Turkish literature on electric vehicles and conduct academic studies. The authors consider that this study will contribute to the Turkish literature and gaining some perspective to the designers, researchers, producers, and companies that work in the field of the battery management systems.	Electric Vehicles, Battery Management System, Battery Thermal Management, Battery State Estimation, Topology of The Battery Management Systems
93	Effects of Heat Treatment Applied to Brutian Pine (Pinus brutia Ten.) Particles on the Formaldehyde Emission and Burning Properties of Produced Boards	In this study, particles obtained from brutian pine (Pinus brutia Ten.) wood were heat-treated at 120, 160 and 180 oC and boards were produced from the particles. Formaldehyde emission values of boards produced from control and heat-treated particles of brutian pine were determined by perforator method. The burning properties of the boards were examined using a single source flame test. The continuous increase in the heat-treatment temperature led to the continuous increase in formaldehyde emission values obtained from the boards. A continuous decrease was observed in the burning trace values of the boards with the continuous increase in the heat-treatment temperature. The results showed that if the boards produced from heat-treated particles are evaluated in the products to be used in indoor environments, the negative impact on the ambient air quality and human health in terms of formaldehyde emission will increase. However, it has been observed that the boards produced from heat-treated particles may be used in partially fire-resistant exterior structures.	Brutian pine, heat-treatment, particleboard, formaldehyde emission, single source flame test
99	The Activated Carbon from Walnut Shell Using CO2 and Methylene Blue Removal	In this study, activated carbon with strong adsorption property was synthesized from lignocellulosic structured walnut shell. Active carbon synthesis was realized in two stages: carbonization and physical activation. Carbonization was carried out at 8 different temperatures (300-1000°C), 500 ml/min N2 gas flow and 10°C/min heating rate for 1 hour. Activation was done at 2 different temperatures (800- 900 °C) at 100 ml/min CO2 gas flow for 1 hour. Characterization of activated carbons was carried out and their adsorption capacities were examined with methylene blue. The surface areas of the activated carbons were investigated by BET analysis and the surface areas ranged from 652,22 to 56,79 m2/g. Amounts of micro and mesopores in these surface areas were calculated. Besides, SEM analysis indicates the porous structure and XRD analysis confirms that the structure is amorphous. Methylene blue adsorption was performed in the aqueous phase and the capacities of the activated carbons were calculated. The methylene blue adsorption capacity of activated carbons varies between 174,81-15,96 mg/g.	Biomass, carbonization, physical activation, activated carbon
103	ErB6 and Ce doped ErB6 hexaborides: A computational material study	Erbiyum hexaboride is one of the heavy rare aearth hexaborides that indicate superior chemical and physical properties. In this study, Erbiyum hexaboride and Ce doped Erbium hexaboride crystal structures have been investigated systematically employing ab initio material modeling. The effects of Ce doping (wt.%10) on Erbiyum hexaboride structure in terms of optical, thermal, mechanical and electronic properties including band properties, enthalpy of formation energies and bulk modules were investigated. Results show that the Ce doping leads to an increase in the bandgap of the structure. Furthermore, the bulk modules calculations show that Ce doping to the structure leads to an increase in mechanical properties.	Metal Hexaborides, Computational Material Science, Advanced Materials, Ab initio calculation
104	AIR QUALITY INDEX PREDICTION IN BESIKTAS DISTRICT BY ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS AND K NEAREST NEIGHBORS	In this study, Air Quality Index (AQI) in Besiktas was intended to be predicted by Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) and k Nearest Neighbors (kNN) algorithms. For this purpose, eight parameters have been selected which may affect the AQI. These parameters are PM10, SO2, CO, O3, temperature, humidity, pressure and wind speed, respectively. 124 data for 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 January, which includes eight parameters, were determined as training data. The first 14-day data of January 2019 were determined as test data. Similarly, the first 14-day data of January, March and December of 2018 were used as test data. In addition, The first 14-day data for January 2019 were normalized and set as test data. The success of ANN and kNN were measured by comparing. Performance rate of ANN with raw data for January 2018 was 85.71%, for March 2018 was 71.43%, for December 2018 was 78.57%. Both with raw and with normalized data for January 2019 was 85.71% performance rate. Performance rate of kNN with raw data for January 2019 was 92.86%, for March 2018 was 28.57%, for December 2018 was 71.43%. Performance rate of kNN with normalized data for January 2019 was 92,86%.	Air Quality ındex, Artificial Neural Networks, k Nearest Neighbours, Classification
105	Utilization of a sun-tracking parabolic dish collector for water heating application	In this study, it is aimed to obtain hot water through a parabolic dish mirror tracking the sun in two axes in climatic conditions of Diyarbakır, Turkey. A heat exchanger of copper spiral element was designed as an absorber on the focus point of the system. Water coming from network exits from the system by heated in the absorber. The experimental data was acquired from 10:00 to 16:30 o’clock. The effect of mass flow rate on efficiency was studied considering three cases of 0.00187, 0.00217 and 0.00345 kg/s. The results indicated that the highest useful heat amount and thermal efficiency were obtained at 0.00345 kg/s. The thermal efficiency values were determined as 32 to 39%. The exergy efficiency of the system was also evaluated as 5.7 to 6.3% according to the experimental data.	water heating, parabolic dish solar collector, spiral absorber
106	COASTLINE CHANGES AND RECENT BEACH FORMATIONS BETWEEN GIRESUN AND PIRAZIZ CONNECTED WITH THE BLACK SEA COASTAL ROAD	Having put in service in 2007, the Black Sea Coastal Road (KSY) ranging from Samsun to the Sarp border gate was constructed over land and by filling the coast in some places between Giresun and Piraziz. Although KSY narrowed the beaches in some places, some of them expanded towards the sea and even new beaches have been formed as a result of the T-shaped groynes, constructed within the scope of the road. In some places, any new beach has not occurred or the formation is slower although groynes. Together with the effect of T-shaped groynes and fishermen shelters, sediment transport by rivers, interaction between waves and rivers flow and particularly bathymetry are important parameters for varying situations along the coast. The lack or very slow speed of formation in places where bathymetry is deep (for example Piraziz beach) and in the mouths of large rivers (Batlama and Pazar Suyu) is the effect of the last two factors.  Having the highest rate, Giresun city beaches have expanded two and a half times and coastline has advanced 60-85 m from year 2006 to 2020. During this period, the annual average advance rate varies between 4.3 m and 6 m. If the advance rate continues with the same rate as in the last 3-5 years, it is estimated that the coastline will reach the groyne ends at the latest by 2028.	Black Sea Coastal Road, Coastline, Beach formation, Groyne, Giresun
108	The Analysis of Similarity Measurements in Content-Based Scientific Paper Recommender System	Recommender systems are information filtering systems that offer personalized suggestions to users. Recommender-based applications are used in numerous areas, such as e-commerce, streaming services, textual media, restaurants, and tourism. Compared to traditional keyword-based search techniques, especially on systems with text-based storage, recommender systems stand out as more effective and customized systems for big data. With the expansion of the content pool on platforms where scientific study sharing is made, there is a significant increase in textual data use. This situation makes it difficult for researchers to access reliable and accurate papers in their domains. Researchers may spend a lot of time finding the most accurate publications to contribute to their studies. The scientific study recommender system helps researchers quickly find papers that are suitable for their interests. Scientific study recommender system offers publications to researchers, who have limited experience, to broaden their horizons and research interests. The content-based filtering method is the most widely used procedure in scientific study recommender system designs and is modeled independently from the user. In this study, a new content-based scientific study recommender system is comparatively suggested over different similarity methods. Although the methods and recommender weights vary, it is seen that the same publications are recommended within the same data set. When it is necessary to choose between methods that are close to each other as measurement values, it is concluded that the calculation time should be considered.	Scientific journal recommender system, inverse document frequency, content-based filtering
111	Identification of Dry Sliding Wear Behaviour of PLA Parts Manufactured by Fused Deposition Modelling	In this study, wear behavior of Poly Lactic Acid (PLA) parts manufactured by one of the additive manufacturing techniques Fused Deposition Modelling (FDM) is investigated and modelled via linear and non-linear identification. Transfer Function, Process Model and Nonlinear Autoregressive with Exogenous Input (NARX) model are used as modelling. Identified wear models are established according to wear tests conducted on Pin-on-disc test apparatus under constant load and constant sliding distance. Two different manufacturing orientations are chosen for the PLA pin specimens and wear tests are performed against steel and cast iron discs. Obtained results from the identified models are compared with the experimental results to select most efficient and reliable model structure.	Additive Manufacturing, Wear, PLA, Identification, Modelling
115	SHORE EDGE LINE & OWNERSHIP PROBLEMS IN TURKEY: CASE STUDIES EVALUATION	"Sea, lake and stream shores; with their natural, social, cultural and economic potentials, they have been demanded areas for all societies living so far. Coasts that are such a focus of attention, are constantly under social pressure due to the opportunities they offer. Turkey have substantial sea, lakes and rivers beds, is of great importance for studies on the use and planning of coastal areas. However, on the one hand, the inadequacies and frequent changes in the current coastal legislation, on the other hand, the inadequacies in administrative supervise and legal sanction constitute the main source of the problems. For this reason, it is difficult to say that coastal areas are managed in 'decision making, planning and implementation' well. Coasts in terms of ownership law in Turkey; by Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey and by the Turkish Civil Code Article 715. 'fully owned by the state ' is one of the places. It is not possible for the coasts to be the property of a certain coterie or private ownership. Coasts should be common areas use of all segments of society equally and freely, but this situation couldn’t realize in actual use. The purpose of study, Turkey’s different ecological, economic and social value the sea, lake and river coasts put forth shore edge line-ownership problem and is to develop analytical advice."	Coastal Areas, Shore Edge Line, Property Right, Coastal Management
116	The adsorption of Cr(VI) and organic matter by new generation pyrolysis char	Waste vehicle tires (WT) and high density polyetylene (HDPE) were pyrolyzed at 300, 500 and 700°C by slow pyrolysis. Solid product (pyrolysis char) were collected and pyrolysis char was used as adsorbent for COD and Cr(VI) removal. The char samples were characterized by BET, EDS, SEM and XRD analysis. Based on the BET, SEM and XRD results of the char samples, WT 700 can be used as adsorbents for Cr (VI) and organic material adsorptions. Cr(VI) and COD removal efficiency of char adsorbent were investigated. In the adsorption experiments, char was used as 0.1-0.5 g/100 mL doses and at 50°C and 80°C adsorption temperatures. The effects of adsorption temperature and char dosage on the adsorption efficiency were invesitigated. The maximum Cr(VI) adsorption capacity of this new generation char was found to be 14.09 mg/g for 80°C adsorption temperatures. 0.5 g/100 mL adsorbent dose was bettter in COD and Cr (VI) removals. The correlation of PSD1 (pseudo first order kinetic model) was better than PSD2 (pseudo second order kinetic model) for all doses. The Temkin and Langmuir isotherms were better isotherm for COD and Cr(VI) removals, respectively. A new approach were present to evaluation of waste HDPE and waste tires with this study.	char, adsorbent, waste tire, pyrolysis
117	Estimation of missing temperature data by Artificial Neural Network (ANN)	Ensuring more reliable and quality meteorological and climatological studies by providing data continuity and widening the data range. For this reason, missing values in meteorological data such as temperature, precipitation, evaporation must be completed. In this study, an artificial neural network (ANN) model was used to complete missing temperature data in the Horasan meteorology station. To establish the ANN model, monthly average temperature values of neighboring stations having similar climatic characteristics and altitude with Horasan were used as input. The monthly average temperature values of the Horasan station were used as output. Approximately 70% of the data was used for training, about 15% for testing, and about 15% for verification in the ANN model. Various statistical parameters were compared to determine the best network architecture and best model. As a result, the model's high determination coefficient (R2 = 0.99) and low mean absolute error (MAE = 0.61) showed that the ANN model can be used effectively in estimating missing temperature data.	Missing data, Temperature, Artificial Neural Network (ANN), Network training, Network testing and validation
118	Anomaly Detection in Crowded Scenes With Machine Learning Algorithms	Camera systems have a very important place as they are widely used in providing security in crowded environments. The video images recorded by cameras are examined to check whether there is dangerous or unusual behavior. It is tried to develop appropriate measures according to the result of this control. Modeling human behaviors for the definition and detection of abnormal behavior has become a popular research area in recent years. This study was carried out by applying supervised learning algorithms, one of the machine learning methods, on five different scenes that in two open data sets. Normal and abnormal motion scenes were detected on the videos in the data sets. In these two data sets, abnormal motion was detected in a total of five different locations. Random Forest, Support Vector Machines and k Nearest Neighbor algorithms, which are among the supervised learning algorithms, were used in this process. The algorithms used were compared with performance criteria such as accuracy, sensitivity, precision and F1 score.	machine learning, anomaly detection, artificial intelligence, crowded analyze
119	Failure Analysis of Fiber Reinforced Adhesively Single Lap Joints	"In this study; experimental failure analysis was investigated on adhesively single-lap joints produced using adhesives reinforced with uni-directional glass fibers. Epoxy adhesive impregnated fiber were used to join composite plates with single-lap joints. It is aimed to strengthen the joint by using fiber layers impregnated with adhesive between the two composite plates. The failure loads of the joints obtained with reinforced adhesives were compared with the failure loads of the joints attached to the non-reinforced adhesive. Also, 0o, 15o 30o and 45o fiber reinforcement angles were used to investigate the effect of fiber reinforcement angle. As a result of the experimental study, it was determined that reinforcing the adhesives can increase the damage loads by up to 7%."	Single –Lap Joints, composite plates, reinforcing of adhesive
122	AN IMPORTANT INDICATOR IN JITTER MEASUREMENT: CONSECUTIVE BLOCKS	Neuromuscular diseases affect the transmission from nerve to muscle. If the nerve is stimulated above the threshold, action potential is produced. The transmission of action potential from nerve to muscle takes about 0.5 to 1 ms. This time varies from stimulus to stimulus. This variability is called as “Jitter”. The stimulus and response to the consecutive nerve stimuli are recorded with single fiber EMG electrode. Because of restrictions in some countries, disposable concentric needle electrode is also used for jitter measurement recently. Sometimes the response to nerve stimulus is not observed and blocks are presented in recordings. It is possible to see them in patient recordings against consecutive stimuli. In this study, 100 signals are recorded in each session from different sites of 13 participants by using concentric needle electrode and they are analyzed with the developed software. Jitter value can be calculated and number of blocks with consecutiveness of impulse blockings can be demonstrated. No blocks were observed in healthy individuals but high number of blocks and consecutive block groups were observed in myasthenia gravis patients. The increase in number of blocks and excess of consecutive block groups are foreseen as an indicator about the severity of disease.	Electromyography, Jitter, Consecutive blocks, Biomedical signal processing
123	Investigation of Hyperparametry Methods and Kits for Deep Neural Networks	Automatic machine learning (AutoML) and deep neural networks have many hyperparameters. The recent increasing interest in complex and cost-effective machine learning models has led to the revival of hyperparameter optimization (HPO) research. The beginning of HPO has been around for many years and its popularity has increased with deep learning networks. This article provides important issues related to the revision of the HPO. First, basic hyperparameters related to the training and structure of the model are introduced and their importance and methods for the value range are discussed. Then, it focuses on optimization algorithms and their applicability, especially for deep learning networks, covering their effectiveness and accuracy. Then, it focuses on optimization algorithms and their applicability, especially for deep learning networks, covering their effectiveness and accuracy. At the same time, this study examined the HPO kits that are important for HPO and are preferred by researchers. The most advanced search algorithms of the analyzed HPO kits compare the feasibility and expandability for new modules designed by users with large deep learning tools. Problems that arise when HPO is applied to deep learning algorithms result in prominent approaches for model evaluation with a comparison between optimization algorithms and limited computational resources.	Deep Learning Networks, Hyper Parameter, Automatic Machine Learning
125	INVESTIGATION OF THE CHARACTERISTICS OF LEATHER MATERIAL USED IN KAHRAMANMARAŞ YEMENİ AND ÇARIK	"In this study, Yemeni, a traditional clothing product of Kahramanmaraş province, was investigated. Meetings were held with the masters who made this craft. Kahramanmaraş yemeni is a product of articulation of art, which has its roots in the past. The most important feature that distinguishes yemeni from traditional shoes is that only leather material is used in its production. The fact that the product is made entirely of leather material supports the sustainable product design. Leather material is not used as it is when it is turned into a product. In this study, in the first part of the experimental study involving the artisan, industrial products designer, and textile and fashion designer, interviews were realized with the leather master and information about the leather used in the production of lemons and lemons was collected. In the second part, in accordance with the information provided by the leather craftsman, abrasion resistance and rubbing-related colour fastness tests were performed on the wet and dry conditions of the leather tanned leather with natural methods, obtained from the leather craftsman. Research methods; It includes literature review, semi-structured interview technique and experimental studies. As a result of the interviews, the masters stated that they produced the yemeni with their own efforts, remaining loyal to the tradition. As a result of the test, it was concluded that the wear resistance of natural leather decreased due to wetting, natural leather was more resistant to usage conditions than fabricated leather, natural leather had increased colour fastness against rubbing when wetted, and fabricated leather had a completely opposite effect against rubbing when wet."	Kahramanmaraş Yemeni, Sustainability, Industrial Textile Design, Leather Tanning
126	Consolidation settlement calculation and examination of the foundation settlements with finite elements method, example of Batman city Gültepe bridge	In this study, geological and geotechnical studies were carried out on the soil of a bridge built in 2015 in the Gültepe District of Batman City, located in southeastern Turkey, to perform the foundation settlement calculation. For this purpose, four foundation boreholes were drilled to determine the engineering parameters of the soil, and triaxial pressure and consolidation tests were carried out on the obtained samples. The consolidation settlement calculation was made in accordance with these parameters. Using the same data, numerical analysis was performed with PLAXIS V.8.2 (Finite Element Code for Soil and Rock Analyses), a two-dimensional finite element package program. The consolidation settlement value was calculated by performing dynamic analysis based on time in the computer software. The settlement value was determined to be 1.70 cm after the analysis, and it was evaluated by correlating with the consolidation settlement analysis results made according to Bowles (1988). Consolidation settlement calculations and finite element package program analyses gave similar results. We observed liquefaction risk and settlements in the structures with shallow foundations in the residential zone near the study area since the soils in the study area consist of silty sand of 5-10 meters and have groundwater. The Bored Pile technique, which is one of the soil improvement methods, was applied and discussed in order to determine the geological problems in the study field.	Bridge, consolidation settlement, finite elements methods, foundation settlement, PLAXIS
127	STATIC ANALYSIS OF HIP PROSTHESIS DESIGN USING FINITE ELEMENT METHOD	Studies to increase prosthesis performance and service life in total hip prosthesis design have gained speed in recent years with the development of surgical methods, materials and production technologies. Practical structural and mechanical solutions that adapt to changing and evolving biomedical technology have become one of the main problems in engineering science today. For this reason, the scientists have been focused on analytical, numerical and experimental studies on the different behaviors of structural and mechanical components made of biomedical materials. The finite element method provides important information about the strength performance of new prosthesis designs without prototype production and physical tests. In this study, the static performance of the prosthesis is investigated by using the finite element method on the ASTM F2996-20 hip prosthesis stem model using Ti-6Al-4V material, which is widely used in hip prostheses. In addition, the effects of mesh type and element size on stress and strain were analyzed numerically by using ANSYS 19 package software. The results show that if the element size is smaller than 1mm, it has no significant effect on the stress and strain, but the solution is not economical by increasing the processing time considerably.	Biomedical Engineering, Finite Element Method, Hip Prosthesis Design, Static Analysis
129	Simplified Human Computer Interface Design Using EEG Signals	Brain Computer Interfaces (BCI) are applications that allow users to communicate and control external devices directly by analyzing changes in brain activity without using muscle and nerve cells, which are normal pathways of the brain. It can also be said that BCIs are an alternative means of communication between the human brain and the outside world based on the electrical activities of brain activity, which can be measured by electroencephalography (EEG) devices. In the EEG measured from the human brain, when a person wants to move a limb, the potentials associated with the event are observed in the EEG. This suggests that information about changes in the activity of the human brain in the cognitive or movement decision process can be detected in the observed EEG. In this study, the attributes of the signals obtained using a four-channel EEG recorder are extracted and classified. Because the experimental study was performed while the user was awake, it processed beta signals. Considering the artifacts, the processed data was used as input data for the interface by realizing offline and online trial. The data obtained from the EEG device was processed in a computer and transmitted to a microcontroller used to control the model vehicle. Data communication is carried out wirelessly. The model vehicle is allowed to move forward-backward / right-left and diagonally.	Brain Computer Interface, Medical Informatics, Embedded Systems, EEG
131	AFWDroid: Deep Feature Extraction and Weighting for Android Malware Detection	Android malware detection is a critical and important problem that must be solved for a widely used operating system. Conventional machine learning techniques first extract some features from applications, then create classifiers to distinguish between malicious and benign applications. Most of the studies available today ignore the weighting of the obtained features. To overcome this problem, this study proposes a new software detection method based on weighting the data in feature vectors to be used in classification. To this end, firstly, the manifest file was read from the Android application package. Different features such as activities, services, permissions were extracted from the file, and for classification, a selection was made among these features. The parameters obtained as a result of selection were optimized by the deep neural network model. Studies revealed that through feature selection and weighting, better performance values could be achieved and more competitive results could be obtained in weight-sensitive classification.	Malware Detection, Feature Weighting, Machine Learning, Artificial Neural Network
144	Mineralogy and Geochemistry Investigations of Gümüşler (Nigde) Antimony (Sb) Mineralization	Gümüşler Sb mineralization represents two different types of structurally controlled mineralization within the Niğde metamorphics. The first type of mineralization is in quartz bands parallel to the schistosity surface of metamorphics. The second type of mineralization is located in the brecciated zone within the fault planes. The main gangue mineral of both ore types is quartz and barite is also present. The main mineral of antimony ore is stibnite and it has been transformed into secondary antimony oxide minerals as a result of alteration in supergene environments. The mineralization between the schistosity surfaces coexists with milk quartz. The ores as a result of the heating of surface waters due to intrusion. There are native gold grains in quartz crystals. In the binary diagrams of the geochemical analysis results, there is a negative correlation between Sb-Cu, Sb-Zn and Sb-Mo element pairs and a positive correlation between Sb-As, Sb-Pb and Sb-Ba. This relationship between elements was also found in the correlation matrix.	Gumusler, Geochemistry, Stibnite, Cinnober, Metacinnober, Native Gold
155	Historical Development and Current Situation of Geographical Information Systems in Turkey	Since its existence on Earth, the humankind has been in an effort to understand and shape the nature, its environment and the events happening around it. Humankind has used the knowledge gained from nature in all activities from location selection to production, construction to consumption, and has made decisions by analysing environmental data such as climate, soil and topography. However, especially after the Industrial Revolution, humankind was detached from the nature, and the information about it began to be forgotten. In addition, with the increase in the population, the needs have also increased, and the constraints of nature were ignored to meet the increasing human needs. As a result, environmental resources have become unable to meet human needs and renew themselves. The environmental disasters prove how sharp this impact is. Geographical Information Systems (GIS) has emerged from the search for solutions to these problems, and it is an advanced tool used to meet the unlimited needs of people with limited resources and to analyse the problems of the planet and find solutions to them. The use of GIS in the world has progressed in parallel with the development of technology. On the other hand, it has not been established necessary and sufficient infrastructure in public institutions in Turkey, therefore, GIS is used by more private sector users. This study examined the historical development of GIS around the world in general and development of GIS in public and private sectors and academic field in Turkey, revealed the current situation in Turkey and the possible opportunities in the future were discussed.	Development of GIS in Turkey, History of GIS, Development of GIS in Public Services, Development of GIS in Academy, Development of GIS in Private Sector
156	The Use of Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Based Planning Studies	In determining and solving spatial problems such as location selection, resource allocation, a huge amount of information is used, and different criteria are applied in which these data are included in the process. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) technologies are frequently preferred as a tool in planning studies and making multi-criteria analysis in the production of these decisions. The Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) used in these processes, referred to as multi-criteria decision-making (MCDM), is one of the most preferred methods among different MCDM methods and is used in different areas involving decision-making. Excluding other areas of use, this study focused on GIS supported planning studies. In solving spatial problems, a large amount of information should be evaluated according to very different criteria. In this evaluation process, when the analytical hierarchy process is used in integration with GIS, the selection of the objected alternative results becomes easier and more accurate. In this study, how the analytical hierarchy process works and its usage areas, criteria and outputs in 9 different studies are examined. The usage of analytical hierarchy process in geographic information systems supported planning studies are examined. A review has been made to understand the use of AHP in GIS supported planning studies. As a result of the study, it has been seen that the AHP is very helpful to the planner who is the decision maker in different areas such as urban and regional scale facility location selection, route planning, function decisions, land suitability evaluation. On the other hand, in the reviewed articles, it was determined that either manual calculations or a separate software was used for the AHP method. This situation has shown that it would be helpful to design an AHP module integrated with GIS software for more beneficial use of AHP in GIS supported planning studies. In addition, it is predicted that with the help of advanced technology, artificial intelligence and machine learning can produce planning decisions more efficiently. The process can be shortened considerably by generating final decisions using mass data and a lot of data that help planners. As a result, the integrated use of GIS, AHP and artificial intelligence methods in deciding very important issues related to settlement of humans can eliminate time and cost problems and provide more appropriate results	analytic hierarchy process, ahp, geographical information systems, GIS, planning studies
157	BENEFICIATION OF LOW QUALITY QUARTZ SAND BY FLOTATION AND OXALIC ACID LEACHING	In this study, studies were conducted to remove impurities such as iron, titanium, and aluminum from quartz sand with low SiO2 content for use in industry. Physical, physicochemical, and chemical methods were applied on silica sand containing 82.03% SiO2, 3.13% Al2O3, 0.48% Fe2O3, and 0.17% TiO2 obtained from Camiş Madencilik A.Ş. Magnetic separation was performed as a physical method, but effective results were not obtained. After the dispersion and classification process, the silica concentrate containing SiO2 of 96.30% and Fe2O3 of 0.30% was obtained by using Na2SiO3 as depressant and Derna 7 as collector in the flotation process carried out at pH 9. Since impurities could not be removed sufficiently by physical and physicochemical processes, oxalic acid leaching was applied. As a result of oxalic acid leaching carried out on the silica concentrate obtained with flotation, 97.18% SiO2 and 0.054% Fe2O3 contents were reached in silica sand. Quartz sand with 89.24% SiO2 and 0.076% Fe2O3 content was obtained by directly oxalic acid leaching after dispersion and classification. According to XRD analysis, calcium ions and oxalic acid form calcium oxalate compounds in the material and this situation adversely effects the production of quartz sand with high SiO2 content. It has been determined that the quartz sand used within the scope of the study cannot be used with directly oxalic acid leaching in the sector, but it can be sold its combination with the flotation method.	silica sand, magnetic separation, flotation, oxalic acid leaching
158	Evaluation of Healthcare Economics of OECD Countries: Multi-Objective Statistical Optimization Model	Healthcare systems comprise the most crucial factors affecting countries economically. In this study, the infrastructure and economic structure of healthcare systems belonging to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries are discussed to evaluate the healthcare expenditures (HE) and healthcare expenditures per capita (pcHE) of OECD members. We have identified factors related to healthcare economics and analyzed the significance ratios of these factors to calculate the feasible values of the factors affecting the healthcare systems in the OECD members by statistical optimization analysis. Within the feasible values obtained by using a multi-objective optimization model (MOOM) because of statistical analysis, the HE of OECD countries was minimized, and an improvement of 29.13% was achieved. The second objective function aimed to maximize the pcHE that was estimated to be at least $5,282.37 for the OECD members. Consequently, in countries that do not have a social healthcare system, it is perceived that HE amounts are excessive. The fundamental reason for this situation represents the healthcare sector’s perception as a business in those countries	OECD countries, Healthcare Expenditure, Healthcare Expenditure Per Capita, Multi-Objective Optimization Model, Statistical Analysis
159	RECOVERY OF GOLD AND SILVER FROM WASTES GENERATED IN JEWELRY PRODUCTION	In this study, it was aimed to recover metallic values by gravity methods from the floor sweeping waste with high gold and silver contents, which are produced as a result of various activities in the jewelry workshops. In addition, the metallic values that remains in the slag phase after thermal process of the floor sweeping wastes were concentrated by centrifugal separators. As a result of gravity separation tests in which the floor sweeping waste subjected to shaking table, MGS (multi gravity separator) and Knelson concentrator, a heavy product (24.2% wt.) was produced with 638 g/t Au and 6227 g/t Ag grades and the metal recovery rates were calculated as 84.4% and 82.2%, respectively. The slag was first ground below 100 ?m and then fed to the centrifugal separators in order to obtain fine size gold and silver particles that were trapped in the glassy phase. As a result of enrichment studies with Knelson concentrator, a concentrate (13.8% wt.) was obtained with 30 g/t Au and 52 g/t Ag grades, and the metal recoveries were found as 64.6% and 44.4%, respectively.	Recovery, Precious metals, Waste, Gravity separation
160	REDUCTION OF IRON CONTENT BY MAGNETIC SEPARATION FOR OLIVINE USE AS A REFRACTORY RAW MATERIAL	In this study, the potential of reducing the iron content in an olivine sample obtained as the final tailing in chromite enrichment was examined via magnetic separation methods. Within this scope, the as-received sample was firstly divided into three fractions as +212, -212+150 and -150 µm. Dry magnetic separation was then applied to the coarse fractions and wet magnetic separation for the fine fraction. The results were evaluated using parameters such as the weight percentage of non-magnetic fraction, Fe2O3 content and iron removal (%). In addition, changes in the quantities of mineralogical phases in non-magnetic fractions were determined by XRD analysis. For +212 and -212+150 µm, it was determined that optimum values can be reached in the current intensity ranges of 0.50-0.75 and 1.0-2.0 A, respectively. Although not comparable, it was observed that the effective separation for -150 µm was achieved in the range of 2.0-3.0 A. Iron content decreasing with decreasing particle size confirms these results. The decreases in the peak intensities of the phases with high iron content in the XRD patterns were also found to be compatible with the magnetic separation results. Overall results showed that the iron content in the olivine rich sample can be reduced to the limit values required for the refractory raw material by magnetic separation.	Olivine, iron content, magnetic separation, chromite enrichment tailing
161	Artificial Intelligence in Health Services and Management	Increasing chronic diseases and epidemics, such as the Covid-19 pandemic, shows a greater need in home care services of the elderly population due to the prolongation of the average human life span and changes in the expectations of individuals from health services in parallel with the development of health literacy. It also brings about change in health services and management. The cooperation of health services and management, the health sector and other sectors would benefit a wide audience. Health professionals and other occupational groups should be able to work in coordination. In addition, there is a need to use health information technologies in the diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation of diseases and in the management of health services for the development of public health. Considering all of these, it is inevitable to use artificial intelligence applications in healthcare services and management due to the increasing workload and insufficient number of health workers. A patient-oriented digital health ecosystem is being created in line with current developments in healthcare and technology. It is recommended to make the necessary legal regulations in the use of artificial intelligence applications with promising solutions.	Healthcare, Healthcare Management, Artificial Intelligence
162	Audits in a Textile Company and Advantages	Textile companies must develop strategies to survive in today’s competitive and volatile world and flexibly adapt these strategies to today’s conditions. In this competitive environment, audits conducted by an internal or external auditor, especially at the request of the customer, enable companies to differentiate themselves from other companies. Audits performed by companies can be classified in various ways. In this study, audit types are classified into internal and external audits depending on the type of auditor. If the audit is conducted by a person working in a company with a contract of pay, it is an internal audit, if not, it is an external audit. The principles and benefits of the audit to the company are explained in the study. In this study, a simulation was prepared to investigate the effect of audit frequency, internal interaction and number of employees in the company on the improvement of the company. In the prepared simulation, relevant changes were processed according to internal parameters on daily basis. As a result, it was found that with sufficient recovery of all parameters within the company, the highest improvement success is achieved when the audit frequency is conducted at least every 3 months. Future studies, information on how the developing information technologies and artificial intelligence provide convenience and perspective for audits are presented.	Audit, GMP audit, Quality management system, Environment management system, Remote auditing, Online auditing
167	Characteristics of Power Consumption and Harmonic Components of Electrical Appliances Used in Residences with K-Means Clustering Method	Industrialization and technological developments increase the need for electrical energy and the impact on energy quality. Therefore, it is needed to monitoring and controlling of electrical loads. Different intelligent measurement applications and machine learning algorithms are tried for measurement and control of electrical devices used in residences. In this study, the power consumption characteristic of each residential device are measured by considering the basic power consumption parameters and harmonic components. Measurements were analyzed by K-Means clustering algorithm. As a result of the analysis, it is observed that the power consumption characteristics of each device can be achieved if sufficient number of features are taken into account.	Load monitoring, Harmonics, Clustering, K-Means
173	Parametric Evaluation of Strength of Fiber/Epoxy Composites	Fiber/epoxy composites are widely used in engineering structures due to their durability and lightness. How the strength of the material changes in various situations such as the fiber type, the number of layers, the angle it will be subjected to loading, the loading speed is important for the designers to choose the composite material. In this study, a full factorial experimental design was established in the light of these parameters and the cross effects of the parameters on each other were evaluated in terms of failure stress, strain and absorbed energy, and useful results and observations were obtained for designers.	Fiber/epoxy, composite material, material strength
182	Tradeoff Selection of Storage Device in Rail Systems and Investment Decision	The first thing that comes to mind in energy storage systems in rail systems is storing regenerative braking energy. Thereby, the train can provide energy for both itself and other trains on the line. It has great benefits both environmentally and economically to save this wasted energy that generally has to be changed to heat energy in the resistors. However, in addition to this benefit, the ability to prevent voltage drops and load fluctuations attaches great importance to studies that will be realized in this area.  Energy storage in rail systems in the world is not only a theoretical study but also there are many applications. However, it should be noted that such systems are the preference of one of two or more useful inputs called trade-offs, in other words, systems in which one positive output is superior to the other. In this study, the most important projects and the storage devices used in these projects are outlined according to their characteristics. Finally, an algorithm has been created that takes into account both the economic and environmental effects of the storage device to be selected in regenerative energy then decides whether the investment will be reasonable or not in terms of storage location and energy use. With this flow chart, a tradeoff approach to energy storage system in rail systems, which has not been addressed before, is declared. Thus, as indicated in the flow chart, the storage device will be selected by calculating both the emission and investment costs of different storage devices, and finally, a final decision will be made whether to invest or not, depending on whether this device is suitable for the system in terms of size.	Rail Systems, Energy Storage, Railway, Transportation
183	Experimental Determination of Wagon Running Resistance Formula in terms of Energy Efficiency for Turkish Railway Conditions	The main factor causing the energy consumption of railway vehicle is train resistances that is the sum of the forces negatively affecting movement of the train. Knowing of the train resistances occurring in the various operating conditions is used for calculating desired locomotive tractive effort, identifying locomotive power requirement, prescience of the energy consumption and determining running time. Formulas are developed by many countries, for calculating of the running resistance that occurs during operating in the own railroads. This study has been undertaken to determine suitable train wagon running resistance formulas for the railroads in Turkey. The experimental data have been recorded over 12 line segments of the national railroad system. The characteristics of the railroad and the rolling stock sets are used to calculate the train resistance according to 24 wagon running resistance formulas. Actual measurements and calculated train resistances are compared. The averages of the differences between the calculated values and the measured values range from 3% to 12%. The formula that provides the smallest average difference is the equation 22. This formula has been recommended for the Turkish railroads wagon running resistance.	Energy, Train resistance, Wagon running resistance
184	Pressure of Urbanisation on the Fish Community Structure in Küçük Menderes River Basin (Turkey)	Urbanization is linked to changes in aquatic flora and fauna, including fishes, and it often leads to a decline in fish diversity, richness, and density. This study aims to determine the fish fauna and their abundance in Küçük Menderes River Basin, which is under the threat of urbanization. The field surveys were carried out in 50 different locations in lotic and lentic biotopes, and fish sampling was performed by using electro-shocker, seine-net, and gillnets in November 2017 and May 2018. A total of 21 taxa belonging to 14 families (Anguillidae, Acheilognathidae, Atherinidae, Blenniidae, Cobitidae, Cyprinidae, Gobiidae, Leuciscidae, Mugilidae, Nemacheilidae, Percidae, Poecilidae, Siluridae and Syngnathidae) was identified. Cyprinidae has the highest species richness with four taxa and the most commonly found fish species were Squalius kosswigi and Cyprinus carpio. In terms of abundance of species, Gambusia holbrooki was the most dominant fish species in Hırsız (the catch per unit effort = 23.28 n/min/m2) and Kuskudan (the catch per unit effort = 24.00 n/min/m2) streams. While Alburnus demiri, Barbus pergamonensis, Cobitis fahireae, Oxynoemacheilus germencicus, Petroleuciscus smyrnaeus and S. kosswigi are Anatolian endemics, Atherina boyeri, Carassius auratus, C. gibelio and Gambusia holbrooki are the invasive fish species in the basin.	water pollution, invasive fish, drought, endemic, irrigation
189	Experimental Analysis and Finite-Element Verification of Pyroplastic Deformations in Ceramic Materials	Ceramic sanitarywares permanently undergo pyroplastic deformations, while gaining strength by liquid phase sintering during heat treatment. Therefore, green product forms are designed in consideration of the pyroplastic distortions formed during firing. In this way, target form of the product is obtained with a high degree of accuracy right after firing. Green product mould forms are usually designed with experience and by following similar product processes. In this study, pyroplastic deformation analyses of two washbasin products are carried out both experimentally and numerically by the Finite Element Method (FEM). First, experimental deformation of simple shaped bars in different support distances are investigated. Next in the study, analysis and verification of the bar deformations are performed using the same support distances by application of the finite element method in the ANSYS environment. Following the demonstration of the validity of numerical approach, 3-dimensional models of two washbasin products are created from molds made in the past by the traditional trial-and-error approach, and the results of the finite element based pyroplastic deformation analyses are presented.	Ceramic sanitaryware, pyroplastic deformation, finite element analysis, design
190	Producing land use maps with Google Earth Engine	Land use are changing due to negative factors occurring in the ecosystem such as continuously developing cities, population growth, and climatic conditions. Data produced by remote sensing satellites play an essential role in ground-based research. Land cover maps are prepared using this data. Land cover maps help us better understand environmental processes such as water and biogeochemical cycles, energy changes, or biodiversity changes. This study was carried out to test the producibility of land use maps on the Google Earth Engine cloud platform. All images acquired between 01/01/2019 and 01/01/2020 from Landsat 8, Sentinel 1, and Sentinel 2 were used in this study. Then 5 different indices NDVI, NDWI, NDBI, Ui, and EVI were calculated, and 19 different combinations of data were considered. Then, for each of these combinations, classification was performed by the LibSVM method in 5 classes: Urban Roads, Water, Forest-Grove, Non-agricultural Lands, and Agricultural Lands. Overall Accuracy and Kappa Coefficient were calculated for each classification, and results were compared. The best classification with Overall Accuracy 96.62 and Kappa Coefficient 95.76 belongs to the data combination of Landsat 8, Sentinel-1(VV), Sentinel-2, NDVI, NDBI, UI and NDWI from Sentinel-2 and NDVI from Landsat 8.	Land use maps, Eskişehir, Google Earth Engine, Supervised classification, Remote sensing
191	Prediction of smoking status by using multi-physiological measures and machine learning techniques	Smoking causes severe economic and health losses in communities. Despite the lack of a gold standard for the measurement of usage level, conventional tests such as Fagerstörm Test for Nicotine Dependency (FTND), Hooked on Nicotine Checklist (HONC) and various neuroimaging approaches provide information about the level of smoking status. In this study, usage of objective physiological parameters was proposed as a new approach to detect level of status instead of subjective status tests. In order to achieve this physiological signals (i.e.., electrocardiogram (ECG), respiration and photoplestimography) were acquired from participants from different smoking status levels. Participants’ smoking status levels were predicted as high dependent and low dependent from features extracted from these physiological signals using machine learning approaches. For this study, 95 university students with different levels of smoking status were recruited according to FTND test results and ECG, respiration and photopletismography signals were acquired respectively for 50 seconds to provide data for machine learning models. After feature extraction, a 10 fold nested- cross validation that includes hyperparameter optimization and classification was performed. According to the classification results, 93 % accuracy and 91 % accuracy were found by using Support Vector Machine and Discriminant Analysis respectively. These results revealed that physiological parameters might be used to predict smoking status via machine learning algorithms.	smoking status, photopletsmography, ECG, respiration, machine learning, classification
193	A Hybrid Genetic Algorithm for Multi-Compartment Vehicle Routing Problem	In this study, a Multi-Compartment Vehicle Routing Problem (MC-VRP) was studied. In daily life, markets, companies and organizations need to load their certain products into different compartments in vehicles during the delivery or collecting of these products. Some of the products need to be carried in cold temperature while others in ambient temperature. Some wastes, chemical products or fuel types need to be transported in the same vehicle separately. Therefore, the transportation fleet must have vehicles with separate compartments and the different products must be either delivered or collected in related compartments of these vehicles. The MC-VRP studied in this paper was taken into consideration with three scenarios of vehicles with one-, two-, or three-compartments. As the solution method, a hybrid Genetic Algorithm (GA) was used and applied on a well-known problem instance set in Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) literature. As a result, new benchmark results were obtained for the version of MC-VRP in this study and these results were evaluated.	Multi-Compartment Vehicle Routing Problem, Hybrid Genetic Algorithm, Heuristic Search
194	Developing methodology for energy demand estimation: 2030 year case of Turkey	The demand for electrical energy is increasing day by day due to various factors throughout the world. Plans and investment for productivity in the future are needed to meet this need increasing. Reliable demand estimations are important in matters considered such as electricity generation, transmission, distribution, integration with each other of systems, how much energy in power plants should be produced and the consumer should be delivered from which grid connection the generated energy. Using artificial neural networks and multiple regression analysis methods in the study, scenarios were produced for the 2030 year electrical energy needs estimates with the 2009-2018 year dates in provinces of Turkey to benefit our country at critical points and create a different perspective on the demand estimation result. Population, average household size, education level, gross domestic product, exports, imports, industrial were used as the input data of models and electrical energy consumption were used as the output data of models. An average of %98 absolute success in the models was obtained in estimation performance analysis of the 2030 year electricity energy demand with Turkey’s 81 province. Utilizing geographic information systems was discussed on result maps.	Geographic information systems, Multiple regression analysis, Electrical energy demand estimation, Artificial neural networks
195	Investigation of adsorption of malachite green dye on pine cone using Taguchi method	In this study, optimization of adsorption of malachite green on pine cones collected from Kars-Sarıkamış forest was studied using Taguchi experimental design. Contact time,initial concentration, initial pH and particle size were selected as affecting adsorption parameters . Optimum levels for adsorption experiments were determined as contact time=240 min, initial concentration=100 mg L-1, pH=5, and particle size = (-425+300), respectively. At optimum levels, the amount of maximum adsorbed malachite green was found to be 9,72 mg/g. ANOVA analysis was performed to understand the effect of process parameters and initial concentration, initial pH and particle size were found to be effective.	adsorption, Taguchi, ANOVA, Malachite green, pine cone
196	A Deep Learning-Based Hotel Image Classifier for Online Travel Agencies	Along with the extensive application of information technologies, there has been increased usage of online travel agencies (OTA) to search holiday alternatives. Hotel images demonstrated by OTAs plays a critical role in providing information to ease selection process. Although serving the images in the right context is an important task to clearly reflect hotel properties, there has been no attempt in previous studies to organize hotel images into appropriate category. For this reason, we aim to conduct a study to organize and classify 20,000 hotel images using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), a prominent deep learning method widely applied in the field of computer vision. Due to the limited training data, we experiment transfer learning to train experimented models. In this phase, we choose a widely applied CNN models, VGG-16, VGG-19, and Inception-v3 which are trained on over one million images. The results demonstrate that experimented models achieve effective categorization of hotel images with the considerable accuracy scores. We believe that our study can help improve OTAs performance in competitive tourism market.	online travel agencies, hotel images, image classification, Convolutional Neural Networks, transfer learning
197	Site Selection for the Wind and Wave Energy Systems in the Aegean Sea Using GIS-based Analytical Hierarchy Process	Integrated wind and wave energy systems in the seas are among the important research topics in the world in recent years. It is crucial to determine suitable areas to make the most efficient use of these energy systems. In this study, the suitable areas for integrated wind and wave energy systems in the Aegean Sea were determined using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) based Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP). Site selection criteria were determined as wind speed, significant wave height, seawater depth, distance to the transformer stations, distance to ports, distance to shorelines, and seabed sediment types. The data were processed in the GIS environment and the pairwise comparison technique was used to determine the criteria weights and to score the sub-categories/grouped options of the criteria. As a result of the study, it was determined that a total area of 50,4 km2 in the Aegean Sea is suitable for the integrated wind and wave energy systems, and 43,4 km2 of this value is located in Bozcaada Island. The results of the study reveal that GIS-based AHP can be used effectively in site selection problems for wind and wave energy systems in the seas.	Geographic Information System, Analytical Hierarchy Process, Site Selection, Wind Energy, Wave Energy
198	Demand Forecasting with Artificial Neural Networks and Support Vector Regression: An Application in a Food Company	In recent years, the changing and globalizing conditions caused the rapid changes and demand uncertainty by changing human needs. Under these rapid changes and uncertain conditions, the way for companies to make effective planning is to make accurate and reliable forecasting. As the technological developments increases artificial intelligence-based forecasting algorithms are widely used for demand forecasting instead of the classical methods such as time series analysis. These methods yield much more successful results than classical forecasting methods, especially in cases where the uncertainty and variability are high. In this study, Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) and Support Vector Regression (SVR) are employed to forecast the demands of the products with high variability and uncertainty in a food company. Before the methods were applied, an experimental design was conducted to find the best parameter values, and in this way, the accuracy of forecasts was increased. Numerical results showed that ANN makes better forecasts than SVR for the examined products.	Demand Forecasting, Uncertainty, Artificial Neural Networks, Support Vector Regression
199	Investigation of Suitable Site Selection Criteria for Offshore Wind Turbines and Application to North Aegean Shores	Wind energy has been used by humanity for various purposes for nearly 2000 years.  The development process has started with windmills that convert wind energy into mechanical energy and then continues with offshore wind turbines in the 21st century. In this study, suitable site selection criteria, which are the most important step in the design process of offshore wind turbines, have been examined in details. The methods and engineering solutions used in the suitable site selection were evaluated. Application was made using the WAsP package program for Gökçeada, Bozcaada, Çanakkale and Ayvacık regions on the North Aegean coasts. Wind speed and potential, depth conditions, restricted areas, marine transportation and cable lines have been recognized as determining criteria in turbine placement. As a result, Bozcaada and Gökçeada coasts have been identified as suitable areas for offshore wind turbines.	wind energy, offshore wind turbines, suitable site selection for offshore turbines
200	Spatial variation model of seismic ground motion for Istanbul	Earthquake induced base motions of elongated structures will not be uniform. This variation of ground motion has a nonnegligible effect on the dynamic response of lifelines that has led to investigations of characterization and modelling of the spatially varying earthquake ground motion within the last decade. In this context, spatial variation of seismic ground motion in Istanbul is analysed. After the introduction of the concept of coherency function and its conventional estimation procedure, estimation of coherency from recorded data and its interpretation are presented. The lagged coherency is calculated by the conventional coherency estimation scheme applied to six earthquakes registered by the Istanbul Earthquake Rapid Response System. A coherency model for Istanbul is derived that will enable to simulate spatially variable ground motion needed as input in the design of extended structures. Simulation of ground motion at pairs of closely spaced locations is presented that consider the derived coherencies in their scheme. The results are compared with actual recordings from the same locations. Simulation of spatially variable ground motion consistent with a coherency function is stated.	Istanbul Earthquake Rapid Response System, Coherency Model, Target Spectrum, Spectral Matching, Spatially Variable Simulated Earthquake Data
205	Mechanical, Pore Structure, Thermal Conductivity and Microstructure Properties of Silica Aerogel-Incorporated Hybrid Silica Fume Mortars	It is a well-known fact that the use of a high amount of silica aerogel in cement-based mixtures contributes significantly to the thermal insulation properties of cement-based materials. However, the current manufacturing cost of silica aerogels is quite expensive compared to traditional insulating materials. This study focuses on the properties of alkali-activated hybrid silica fume mixtures containing silica aerogel powder at a low content rate. For this purpose, aerogel inclusion ratios were designed at 0%, 0.25% and 0.5% by weight of binder and the alkaline activation of the mortar mixtures was carried out with sodium carbonate (Na2CO3) at dosage rates of 0.1% and 0.2%, by weight of binder. After 2, 7 and 28 days of curing, the effect of the inclusion of a small amount of silica aerogel powder on the mechanical, thermal conductivity, pore structure properties and microstructure morphology of the hybrid silica fume mortar samples were investigated in detail. Experimental results show that the thermal insulation properties of the samples can be improved by 28% with a maximum compressive strength reduction of 2.4% in 0.25% aerogel-Incorporated samples. Due to the high level of gel pore formation (?40%) in hybrid silica fume mortars, the negative effect of silica aerogel addition on the mechanical properties of the samples is limited. This study provides a new perspective on the use of silica aerogels in hybrid silica fume mortar mixtures.	Hybrid mortar, silica aerogel, thermal conductivity, silica fume, pore structure
206	Selection of Pile Foundation Systems:An Integrated Multi-Criteria Decision Making	Pile foundations have been used for transmitting loads from structure to the soil. Design of pile foundation involves the determination of the design parameters such as pile type, pile diameter, pile length, pile layout etc. This study proposes an integrated methodology for selecting the most appropriate pile foundation design for a given soil profile. The methodology incorporates Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) and Vlsekriterijumska Optimizacija I Kompromisno Resenje (VIKOR)/Preference Ranking Organization Method for Enrichment Evaluations (PROMETHEE) and Finite Element Analysis (FEM). While AHP is used for determining the weights of criteria, VIKOR and PROMETHEE are employed in order to acquire final rankings of alternatives. Then, a finite element analysis is applied on a selected set of best alternatives to provide precise results. Finally, a case study is conducted to show the effectiveness of the proposed methodology. Based on the findings of the case study, the methodology proposed paves the way for making an efficient decision for pile foundation selection.	Pile Foundations, Multi Criteria Decision Making, AHP, Vikor, Promethee
212	Dose and fading time estimation of glass ceramic by using artificial neural network method	Ceramic materials commonly used for dental prosthetics and restorations shows luminescent properties. Dental ceramics are considered the most natural-looking restorative materials for aesthetic rehabilitation due to their transparency. They are commonly used for dose response and fading assessment by using thermoluminescence method in various fields of dosimetric applications. In present study, we use artificial neural networks (ANN) toolbox of Matlab to predict irradiation dose and fading time using glow curve data from dental glass ceramic which is thermoluminescent (TL) dosimetric material. Temperature, dose value and fading time are used for input and TL intensity used for output component of the proposed ANN model. 18 neurons are used for hidden layer to analyze the experimental results of the model. Experimental and simulation results are compared and similarity is found as about 99 % in this present study.	Artificial Neural Network, Thermoluminescence, Glow curve, Fading time
213	Characterization of the influence of Amyloid ? (1-42) By Way of Modeling Synaptic Cleft with an RC Electronic Circuit	The research toward understanding the role of oligomeric amyloids in Alzheimer disease (AD) has gained a considerable attention in recent years. The information obtained in this direction showed that Amyloid Derived Diffusible Ligands (ADDLs) cause an ambiguous ions movements across lipid bilayers in plasma membrane and consequently alter its dielectric properties such as permeability. Nevertheless, how these amyloid protein selectively alters the permeability of cell membrane has not been noted down because none of specific receptor have been identified for ADDLs binding. As a result of the increase of cellular calcium level, local micromechanical properties of cells can change and thus induce reorganization of cytoskeletal structures that can cause neurodegenerative disorders such as AD. Therefore, in this study we have tried to specify the effect of alteration of permittivity and permeability of synaptic channel as modelling synaptic cleft by an RC circuit. By linking the electronic neuronal models that we have previously designed with the RC cleft model, when the information transferred from one neuron to another, the rate of error measured on the later neuron circuit with reference of the former one was determined with respect to the rate of change of R and C values individually. It was observed that C and R, and hence permeability of synaptic channel does effect the communication error. It is concluded that a healthy synaptic channel conserves optimum resistivity and capacity levels at which the inter-neuronal signalling is achieved at a minimum error. This results could be linked to hypothesizes that amyloids have a common feature in structuring channel-like concentrations which supported by their electrical activity as well as the rate of permeability of Calcium like cautions.	Alzheimer disease, Amyloid beta, Synaptic cleft
216	Detection of Clove, Peppermint and Garlic Oils with Electronic Nose	"It has been known for centuries that aromatic extracts obtained from plants have effects on human body, spirit and mental health. Aromatic oils prepared with these extracts; It can show psychological, physiological and spiritual effects on people by taking it into the body with food and drink, applying it to the skin or just by smelling it. With the developing technology, electronic noses have been produced as a device that recognizes the smell for the last 20-30 years. In this study, it was aimed to distinguish clove, mint and garlic oils from aromatic oils with an electronic nose. An electronic nose consisting of 18 gas sensors and 1 humidity sensor was manufactured for the study. With the electronic nose produced clove and mint oils were separated from each other with 91.67% accuracy, garlic and mint oils 92.83%, clove and garlic oils 57.67% from each other."	electronic nose, odor classification, Clove, Peppermint and Garlic Oils
217	LiDAR-aided Spectral Variability Decreasing in Hyperspectral Imagery Based on an Automated Waveband Selection Approach	Hyperspectral (HS) and Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) sensors are the two of the newest remote sensing technologies. In recent decades, hyperspectral unmixing analysis has achieved a great importance in remote sensing applications. Spectral variability can occur in hyperspectral images due to some reasons. This spectral variability can cause serious abundance estimation errors in hyperspectral image analysis. On the other hand, LiDAR data provides the Digital Surface Model (DSM) data that does not affected by spectral variability. In this study, in order to decrease the spectral variability on hyperspectral imagery, Stable Zone Unmixing (SZU) approach is used by segmenting of LiDAR-DSM information. Experimental results are carried out on simulation and real data sets and spectral variability is reduced in both images.	Hyperspectral (HS) image, Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) Data, spectral variability, SUnSAL-TV, ADMM
218	On the Thermo Economical Optimization for Solar Hot Water Heating Systems	A thermo economic optimization analysis is presented based on steady state performance at annual average condition which yields simple algebraic formula for estimating the optimum heat storage tank capacity for solar energy applications. The P1-P2 method is used in the present study, together with the most favorable heat storage tank dimensioning criteria, for thermo economic analysis of solar hot water heating systems, SHW, including costs of all system elements. The optimum storage capacity and the most feasible collector area are calculated at which maximum net life cycle savings occurs for solar hot water heating systems. The validity of the optimization formulation was checked.	Thermo economics, Solar hot water heating, Optimization, Storage volume
219	Control of Vortex-Induced Turbulent Flow by Curved Perforated Plate	In this study, the control of the vortex-induced turbulent flow in the wake of a circular cylinder was investigated using curved perforated plate (control element) having various and partial porosities. PIV measurements were performed for the considered parameter ranges, Reynolds shear stresses were calculated in the flow field and the contour distributions of the bare cylinder and controlled cases were compared quantitatively. According to the results, it was understood that the Reynolds numbers had identical effects on the flow control. However, it was observed that the shear stresses in the cylinder wake decreased for all examined cases of porosity and arc angle. It has been revealed that the maximum value of Reynolds shear stress is decreased by 96% compared with the bare cylinder and the unsteady flow in the cylinder wake is completely controlled at 120o? ? ?180o for ? = 0.5 and ? = 0.6.	Flow control, Unsteady flow, Vortex shedding, Bluff body, PIV
222	Measuring Financial Form Readability of Technology Companies with Text Mining Techniques	In financial markets, companies are required to disclose a comprehensive review of their business operations and financial positions via filing forms. For these forms to be understood by investors, it is necessary to use plain language without complexity. Readability indexes are used to determine the syntactic length and complexity of the texts, and they are closely related to fields such as applied linguistics, text analysis, and natural language processing. These indexes are one of the text mining functions, which aims to obtain meaningful information from texts as a primary data source. In this study, we calculated the readability scores of a total of 23,103 public disclosure forms of 144 technology companies on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) between 2010 - 2019. The scores were evaluated by comparing alternative readability indexes. As a result of the study, it was determined that readability indexes, except for file size, provide similar results, and it was concluded that public disclosure forms are “very difficult” to understand and require higher educational levels than a graduate education. It was also shown that the forms of medium and large-sized technology companies have lower readability levels than other technology companies.	Readability Index, Financial Markets, Text Mining
223	Analyses of Current Wind Energy Status of Turkey and its Future Prospect	"In this study, wind power status of Turkey is extensively investigated. In this regards, wind power occasion, which is one of the most popular and promising renewable energy types of today, is studied for Turkey in the year range of 2009-2018. Finally, Turkey's long term wind energy status till 2030 is predicted. In this context, it is demonstrated that Turkey's wind energy status will even surpass the case of 2018; in which wind energy ratio by 2030 based on whole sources is expected to be 16.61% exceeding the case of 2018, which is 16.56%."	Available power potential, Renewable energy, Wind energy
224	Static Analysis of Functionally Graded Sandwich Beams by the Complementary Functions Method	In this paper, the static analysis of sandwich Functionally Graded (FG) beams made of symmetric and asymmetric layers is investigated. The surface layers of the sandwich beam of which mechanical properties change along the thickness of the section are functionally graded and the material of the core layer is assumed to be isotropic homogenous. Canonically equations that govern the bending response of sandwich FG beams are obtained with the aid of the minimum total potential energy principle based on Euler-Bernoulli and Timoshenko beam theories. Obtained equations are solved numerically via the Complementary Functions Method (CFM). In this research the effects of different boundary conditions, length-height (L/h) ratios, material variation coefficients and layer ratios on the bending response of the beam are investigated. The accuracy and applicability of the suggested approach are demonstrated by comparing the current results with those of the existing studies in the literature.	Two-Point boundary value problem, Complementary functions method, Sandwich beam, Functionally graded materials
225	Theoretical Analysis on the Thermal and Electrical Properties of Fiber Reinforced Laminates Modified with CNTs	In the present study, the effect of the multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) fillers weight fraction on the mechanical, electrical, and thermal properties of the epoxy was calculated analytically. The results were then compared and it was found out that the MWCNTS has a significant effect on the electrical conductivity of the epoxy. The MWCNT modified epoxy composites were considered as the matrix material to design quasi-isotropic carbon fibre/epoxy composite. The change of the weight fraction of the MWCNTs on the mechanical, electrical, and thermal properties of the carbon fibre/epoxy laminates was also calculated. Finally, the hygrothermal load and the bending load response of the laminated composites were researched. MWCNTs fix the mismatch between the hygrothermal properties of the epoxy matrix and the carbon fiber.	Nanoparticle, Modified epoxy, Composite laminate, Hygrothermal response
226	A General Approach to the Origin of Haraptepe (Horzum-Adana) Pb-Zn Mineralization	"The aim of this study is to prove the geochemical characteristics of the Haraptepe (Horzum) mineralization where located in the northeast of Adana. The ore zone where in the eastern Taurus is a branch of the Horzum Pb-Zn deposit. In this area, where rocks belonging to the Geyikdağı unit are observed, the Chaotic series at the base and the Çaltepe and Seydişehir formations with tectonic contact are observed on it. Mineralization is found within the light colored limestones belonging to the Middle Cambrian aged Çaltepe formation. The mineralization strikes N10oE and dips to SE. The epigenetically formed metal-rich ore is in the form of pockets and lenses and has a stratabound character. Primary sulphide minerals in mineralization; It is in the form of galena, sphalerite, pyrite and very little chalcopyrite respectively. As a result of the precious metal, main and trace element analyzes of the ore samples collected from the study area, Zn reaches 50% and Pb reaches 25%. In samples taken from the surface, the average Zn value is 30.5% and Pb is 11.4%. Cu value varies between 1-14 ppm and Mn 210-642 ppm, Cd content and Ag amount are <0.5 ppm on average. The analysis results of the samples collected from the underground drillings are also similar to the surface samples. Considering the ore mineralogy and geochemistry, the Haraptepe mineralization exhibits a similar character to other deposits in the Horzum Region, and with its low Cu ratio, it exhibits a similar behavior to carbonate replacement deposits."	Çaltepe formation, Epigenetic, Pb-Zn Mineralization, Geochemsitry, Haraptepe
227	The Effect of Weather Conditions and Some Demographic Data on the Confirmed COVID-19 Cases: Analysis for 12 Statistical Regions of Turkey	"COVID-19 has been affecting the world since the beginning of 2020. Although current evidence indicates that the virus spreads through contaminated objects or close contact with infected individuals, there is limited research on under what conditions the virus spreads faster. This study is conducted to reveal the relationship between COVID-19 cases and meteorological conditions and also some demographic characteristics. For this goal, real-feel air temperature, humidity, and wind speed; analyzed as meteorological parameters. The number of individuals over the age of 65, the education level of the individuals, and the population density are also considered as demographical parameters. The analyses are conducted based on Spearman’s correlation coefficients. The results proved that the positive correlation was calculated for real-feel air temperature, wind speed, population density, and the number of individuals over 65, whereas negatively correlated with humidity."	COVID-19, Coronavirus, Real-feel temperature, Wind speed, Humidity, Age, Population density
228	Simulation Modeling of Product Development Process in Textile Dyeing-Finishing Mills-Model Design	"In this study, simulation modeling of product development process in textile dyeing-finishing mill was studied. The product development process is a process that takes place in the finishing plant before the order comes in or in the collection preparation stages. Recording and verifying all the processes in this process is a very complex and difficult process. In this study; The dyeing-finishing facility of a large- scale textile company producing woven fabrics with polyester/viscose weight for outerwear was used. The work study technique was used in the systemic stages of the study, and the work flow and time measurements were carried out by direct observation in the mill. The model has been prepared in a way to give the production deadline at the end of all options in the product development (P&D) process. The model is designed for the flow when the customer brings a sample of the product to be ordered and includes the customer approval stages."	Textile dyeing-finishing mill, Product development, Work study, Simulation, Modeling
230	MEASUREMENT OF SOLAR UVB RADIATION USING AL2O3:C DOSIMETERS IN CITY OF IZMIR	It is well known that UV radiation has a significant effect on our ecologic system. The risks that may be caused by the increases in ultraviolet (UV) radiation reaching the earth’s surface due to the depletion of stratospheric ozone have been studied by many researchers. Although UVB radiation consists only a small fraction of the global solar UV radiation, it causes harmful effects on human, animal and plant. Furthermore, UVB may have several adverse effects on living organism in terrestrial and sea ecosystem.   The aim of this work is to investigate the usability of thermoluminescence dosimeters (TLDs) in measuring the solar UVB radiation. TLDs have some superior characteristics such as their availability, being cheap and easy to use. In this study, we used Al2O3:C thermoluminescence dosimeters for measuring the UVB radiation, They are very sensitive to low ionizing radiation doses and UVB radiation. The daily exposures of the ground surface UVB radiation were periodically measured using aluminium oxide dosimeters. The measurements were taken from 09:00 to 16:00 in each study day. Obtained results were observed to be consistent with the UV data received from Ege University, Solar Energy Institute.	Solar UVB radiation, TLD, Al2O3:C dosimeter, Radiation measurement
231	Evaluation of Green Infrastructure Systems within the Scope of Sustainable Rainwater Management	The existence of water resources is currently under threat due to reasons such as urbanization, population growth, climate change, and deforestation. Unplanned urbanization, increase of impermeable surfaces, destruction of existing vegetation have started to prevent the natural cycle of water. Water that cannot fulfill its natural cycle puts the existence of water at risk by not reaching groundwater. In addition, it causes floods and overflows in cities by passing to surface flow. In the face of this situation, the use of sustainable systems instead of traditional systems in today's cities has come to the fore. Many concepts have emerged within the scope of sustainable water management systems in the world. One of these concepts, green infrastructure systems, uses vegetation and soil to manage rainwater where it falls. In this way, it improves the urban air quality, provides infiltration and helps prevent floods. In the study, the concept of green infrastructure and application methods are explained. In the province of Edirne, Fırınlarsırtı TOKİ (Governmental Mass Housing Administration) Houses were selected as the study area. The study focuses on the use of vegetative elements as a solution method within the concept of green infrastructure. In this direction, the existing vegetal texture on the streets with surface flow was analyzed. By evaluating all these data, herbal suggestions are presented to keep the flow in the general condition of the area and the streets with flow.	Rainwater Management, Sustainable Environment, Green Infrastructure, Urban Drainage, Edirne
235	DETERMINATION OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MEASURES WITH EYE TRACKING DEVICE	Information systems are also used in control records, trainings and environment measurements in the field of occupational health and safety. Moreover, it seems to be a gap in the literature regarding the application of usability testing methods utilized in the field of human-computer interaction in to occupational health and safety (OHS) studies. In this study, it is aimed to determine the effectiveness of occupational health and safety measures via usability test approach. Usability testing was carried out with the help of eye tracking devices. In this experiment research, 26 people were participated. Participants wearing eye tracking devices were asked to find the exit assuming there is a fire. Three experiments were designed in two different institutions. The number of focuses and focus times for fire equipment, panic button and caution signs were examined. In addition, 12 OHS experts' opinions were included in the study. As a result imply that the risk analysis is not enough alone and more comprehensive analysis with information systems is required to improve the precautions to be taken as a result of the risk analysis. It is suggested that the method proposed in the study can also be employed in the context of other emergency cases and disasters.	eye tracking device, usability, human-computer interaction, occupational health and safety
236	Analysis of Splicing Method on Bursting Strength of the Knitted Fabrics	The study was carried out as two parts. In the published previous part, the spliced yarn performances were investigated to reveal optimum splicing method in terms of fiber type and yarn count on the basis of splicing methods including air splicing, wet splicing and mechanical (twin) splicing by using pure and blended ring-spun yarns containing cotton, viscose, polyester, modal, and acrylic fibers at different yarn counts of Ne 20, Ne 30 and Ne 40. The study revealed that twin splicer was the best for cotton fiber and acrylic fiber, whereas it was the worst for regenerated cellulosic fibers. All splicer types can be used for polyester fiber, and the best splicer type was air splicer for fine yarns, on the contrary, it was twin splicer for coarse yarns. The current study which is the second part of the study aimes to determine the bursting strength properties of the knitted fabrics on the basis of splice types. For this, the obtained yarns by splicing in different splicer in the previous work were knitted, and then the tests of structural properties and bursting strength were applied for the fabric samples. The results of the study unexpectedly indicate that splice types do not have effect on the bursting strength of the knitted fabrics in spite of the results of the previous study showing splice types clearly affect yarn strength. But, fiber types are effective on the bursting strength as expected. Besides, fabric structural properties do not have effect on the bursting strength because of constant knitting parameters.	Bursting strength, Spliced yarn strength, Knitted fabric, Air splice, Wet splice, Twin splice, Fiber types, Yarn count
237	The Effect of Post-Curing Time on Mechanical Properties in 3D Polymer Materials Printed by Stereolithography (SLA) Method	Stereolithography (SLA) is one of the most attractive methods in additive manufacturing approaches since obtained high dimensional sensitivity using liquid photosensitive resin and laser light. In this study, 3D polymer materials were fabricated by SLA device, and the ultraviolet post-curing process was applied at different durations (30, 60, 180, and 300 min) to investigate the effect of post-curing time on mechanical (tensile, Charpy impact tests) and thermal (DSC) properties of polymer materials. Elasticity Modulus value of post-cured polymer materials was increased by approximately 49% and achieved the level of 63.71 MPa. It was shown with the results of DSC analysis that the post-curing processes with the 180 min. and above is adequate since the carbon-carbon double bonds occurred.	Additive manufacturing, Stereolithography (SLA), Photosensitive resin, Ultraviolet curing
238	Tectono-Stratigraphic Investigation of Afyonkarahisar-Dinar-Dombayova Coalsite and Geological Development and Reserve Potential of Lignite Deposits in the Area	The study area is located 10 km to the northeast of Dinar district of Afyonkarahisar province within the horst-graben system that also controls the formation of the Lakes region. The studied horst-graben system was formed by oblique slip faults along with normal faulting. The Dombayova graben is a depression region of approximately 5 to 7 km in width and 20 km in length. Dombayova graben consists of generally medium-grained units such as alluvial fans and slope debris at the edges of the basin, and claystone, siltstone, sandstone, mudstone and unconsolidated clastic units at the center of the basin that has lateral and vertical transition. Due to the active tectonism in the study area, visible inclinations in the units especially in the eastern side of the area are remarkable. In addition, as observed in the cores taken from the boreholes, tight folding formed in some areas. This tectonic process, along with the formation of normal faulting in the field has led to the development of oblique slip faulting. Dombayova graben, is represented by normal and oblique slip faults sloping from the western and eastern edges towards the basin center. As observed in the drilling studies, faults in the basin caused the existing units to form at different levels over very short distances. Similar displacements have also been observed in the lignite veins. The drilling activities carried out in the graben, the presence of Miocene-Pliocene aged lignites formed under the Late Pliocene-Quarternary sediments with a reserve of approximately 1.525 billion tons (±100 million tons) were determined. The thickness of the lignites in the field starts from a few cm on the edges of the basin and reaches to the basin center from hundreds of meters in some places. As a result of the laboratory analyzes, these lignites have an average of 1783 kcal/kg Lower thermal value, 40.57% moisture, 18.97% ash, 27.65% volatile matter, 12.81% constant carbon, 0.73% sulfur in ash, 1.25% total sulfur values.	Dombayova graben, Normal and oblique-slip faulting, Lignite
239	Determination of Polymer and Polymer Composites with Wear Resistant for Use in Electrical Contact Breaker	This study was carried out to determine the pair of materials with the best abrasion resistance in contact breakers in the electrical industry. Pin-on-disk wear test machine was used for tribological tests. For this purpose, 25wt.% long glass fiber reinforced and 40wt.% calcium carbonate added unsaturated polyester based thermoset composite material (25wt.%GF + 40wt.%CaCO3+UPET) was used as the disc material. As pin materials, unfilled poly-ether-sulfone (PES) polymer, 30wt.% glass fiber reinforced poly- phenylene-ether (PPE+SBS+30wt.%GF) composite and 15wt.% glass fiber reinforced poly-butylene- terephthalate/poly-ethylene-terephthalate mixture composite (PBT/PET+15wt.%GF) materials were used. Tribological experiments were carried out under dry sliding conditions and at room temperature. The experiments were carried out under pressure of 0.707, 1.415, 2.123 and 3.538 MPa and at a sliding speed of 0.5 m/s. As a result of wear and friction tests, friction coefficient and specific wear rates of materials used were determined. As a result of the experiments carried out, the highest wear rate was obtained in the unfilled PES polymer, while the lowest wear rate was obtained in PPE+SBS+30wt.%GF composite. As a result of the experiments carried out, PPE + SBS+30wt.%GF/25wt.%GF+40wt.%CaCO3+UPET thermoset composite pair has been determined as the most suitable material pair for use in contact breakers.	Thermoplastic, Thermoset, Wear, Polymer, Composite
240	Investigation of the Impacts of ISO 14001 Environmental Management System on Energy Recovery and Climate Change in Cement Production Sector	In this study, the effects of ISO 14001 Environmental Management System on energy gain and climate change in an industrial company operating in the cement industry were examined. In addition to preventing CO2 emissions, it has contributed to the efficient use of natural resources by obtaining fossil fuel savings. In this study, it has been demonstrated that a great deal of energy can be saved by reusing the heat from the preheater and cooler in the production process of the cement industry and recovering waste materials. It has been found that improving energy efficiency reduces CO2 emissions from electricity and fuel consumption and CO2 emission decreased by 6811.87 tons by evaluating energy consumption and release of emissions within the scope of ISO 14001 management system. Thus, it has been calculated that the CO2 emission to the atmosphere in tons was prevented and this rate decreased in the targets. With the established management system, a proactive environmental culture has been created within the company, and as a result, positive contributions to climate change have been obtained.	Environmental management system, Cement, Energy, Environment, Climate change
241	Orthophoto and Digital Elevation Model Production using Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV): Adıyaman University Main Campus	With the rapid development in Remote Sensing (RS) and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) technologies, the demand for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) is increasing rapidly in our country as in the world. In addition to the high resolution of the UAVs' images, they have great advantages in areas where it is challenging to do fieldwork. It is used to reflect the land's morphology and reveal the high- resolution digital elevation model obtained from the mid-photos. The slope produced by this model, slope orientation parameters, and regional or spatial morphological features. In this study, an orthophoto with a sensitivity of 3.41 cm was produced in approximately 300 hectares covering the main campus of Adıyaman University using an UAV. Using these images, a digital elevation model with 3.41 cm precision, slope and slope orientation map were obtained.	Remote sensing, Geopraphic information systems, Unmanned aerial vehicles, Adıyaman University
242	A Statistical Analysis of the Relationship Between Meteorological Parameters and the Spread of COVID-19 Cases: Comparison Between Turkey and Italy	"This study aims to statistically analyze the effects of meteorological parameters on the spread of coronavirus in Turkey and Italy. The multi-factor ANOVA for data analysis was used for the present study. The data of the COVID-19 active cases were handled covering 55 days between March 10, 2020 (the first case incident) and May 3, 2020 for Turkey and covering 69 days between February 25, 2020, and May 3, 2020 for Italy. The parameters of meteorology include average temperature (0C), humidity (%), wind (mph) and pressure (Hg) in this study. The data of meteorological parameters were considered as the average of each factor’s data for the highest populated cities of Turkey and the two most populous cities (Rome and Milan) in Italy. The analysis of variance was significantly analyzed with COVID-19 pandemic (R2= 0.307; F-ratio=5.6581 prob > .0008 with 55 observations for Turkey, and R2= 0.437; F-ratio=3.6581 prob > .0182 with 69 observations for Italy), with the highest level. Among the parameters of the weather, average temperature (°C) has a significant impact on COVID-19 pandemic (t-ratio=3.12; p<0.05) and humidity (%) provisionally affects COVID-19 pandemic (t-ratio=-1.186; p<0.10) for Turkey. In addition, both humidity (%) (t-ratio=-1,38; p<0.0172) and wind (mph) (t-ratio=-2,57; p<0.0125) parameters have been found to play an important role in the COVID-19 outbreak for Italy."	COVID-19, Anova, Temperature, Humidity, Wind, Pressure
246	Investigating the Association between Employee Silence and Perceived Organizational Support via Data Mining	Modeling human behavior in distinctive contexts is of vital importance today, especially in research in the fields of marketing and management. From a management perspective, modeling employee behavior strengthens decision-makers’ hands in numerous areas such as workforce planning and management. Comprehensive employee profiles obtained offer business organizations extremely important strategic gains, especially sustainable competitive advantage. This study is the first attempt to model the relationship between employee silence behavior and perceived organizational support through data mining techniques,and it aims to extract employee profiles accordingly. Evaluating these two important phenomena within such a relational framework opens a novel door for organizational behavior researchers. The Association Rule Mining technique was applied to achieve knowledge discovery from the data obtained through two scales. Within the research, the rules above a threshold value of 0.50 were evaluated to make the associations representing the employee profiles more meaningful. Accordingly, firstly, the association rules between the factors of the organizational silence scale were evaluated and seven rules were obtained. Next, the perceived organizational support factor was included in the model, and how it affected the obtained association rules was examined. In this manner, ten association rules formed by the factors of the two scales were determined. The inclusion of the perceived organizational support factor revealed quite striking relationships. Especially, an association of over 80% observed in the first five rules enabled the discovery of hidden patterns in terms of determining employee profiles. These valuable inferences obtained through this study reveals the importance of utilizing data mining techniques for future profile extraction studies.	Employee Silence, Perceived Organizational Support, Data Mining, Apriori Algorithm, Association Rule Mining
247	Urban Resilience Against to Acute Shocks and Chronical Stresses &Sustainable Resilience Approach	To maintain the sustainable development of cities, it is significantly essential to solve immediate concerns, overcome barriers against development and manage the risks based on challenges. The cities that know to deal with the challenges and anticipate how to make theirselves resilient can develop their future according to their preferences and administer them as they should. Not only disaster risks (based on natural hazards and climate change) but also consequences of irresponsible urbanization (unconscious consumption of natural resources, energy use, carbon emission etc.), socio-economic and cultural stresses that impede development (poverty, inequality, injustice, security, income reduction, etc.) and environmental problems (environmental degredation, contamination, bio-diversity loss, ecosystem resource reduction etc.) significantly affect urban resilience and sustainability. These complications are called acute shocks and chronical stressess. Acute shocks are unpredictable and abruptly strikes the cities like earthquake, pandemic, cyber attack etc. Chronical stress are unsolved, permanent problems in daily life like traffic, brain drain, drought, unemployment, water shortage etc. These challenges are serious threats to carve out a better future for cities. In the manner of sustainable development it necessary to build urban resilience against to acute shocks and chronical stress. Urban Resilience is the coping skill and capacity to cope with acute shocks and chronical stressrss. Urban resilience is a systematic and dynamic process that built in time, requires qualitative and quantitative development in the intangible and tangible urban characters and transform in compulsory situations. Urban resilience is empowering cities in face of the different factors currently threatening their future development. For building skills such as be strength, swift recovery, survival, absorbing capacity, adaptation, transformation to all city (urban components, sectors, systems, stakeholders) against the changing, differentiating, strengthening, diversifying, potential and unanticipated global and local problems is necessary and important for cities in order to cope with challenges and to be sustainable resilience. In the feature, beyond the realm of possibility to know, when and what challenges will the cities face with. Enhancing cities capacity, making safer and more resilient to deal with the heterogeneous factors currently threatening them and unforeseen challenges depends on todays’ decisions, actions and applications. Stronger, well protected and swift recovery cities against the acute shocks and chronical stresses are the investment for safe, liveable and sustainable cities. This investment can only be made possible by providing urban resilience capability to the whole city within the framework of sustainable resilience approach. One of the ways to integrate the Sustainable Resilience Approach to the entire city is to set up an Urban Resilience Office.	Urban challenges, acute shocks, chronical stress, resilience, urban resilience, sustainable resilience
249	Evaluation of the Conditional Probability of January 24, 2020 Sivrice (Elazığ) Earthquake	In this study, the conditional probability of 24 January 2020 Sivrice (Elazığ) earthquake was calculated by applying four different statistical distribution models (Weibull, Rayleigh, exponential and log-normal distribution models). For these calculations, the recurrence periods of M?4.7 earthquakes that occurred between 1900 and 2019 in the region were used. The fitting between the models and the data was evaluated with three different test criteria (Likelihood value (lnL), Akaike and Bayesian information criteria). Log-normal model was determined as the model that best represents the study data. According to the results of the study, the conditional probability values of the Elazig (Sivrice) earthquake (for t = 0 and te = 2) were calculated as 80% to the log-normal model, as 72% to the exponential model, as 70% to the Weibull model, and as 36% to the Rayleigh model.	Sivrice (Elazığ) Earthquake, Weibull, Rayleigh, Exponential, Log-normal
250	Planning Power System Portfolio of Turkey through Analytic Hierarchy Process and Data Preprocessing Abstract	The purpose of this study is to suggest an investment plan for Turkey, which is dependent on foreign energy, that meets Turkey’s electrical energy demand between 2020-2039. Strategic investment plan for electricity generation is crucial in terms of ensuring sustainable supply security. Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP), which is a multi-criteria decision-making method, was utilized to build this investment proposal. Under a series of data preprocessing techniques applied within the model, the subjectivity that is often observed in AHP has been largely eliminated, resulting in relatively more objective results. With the unique data preprocessing techniques and the AHP method applied within the study, a portfolio scenario that is in line with the strategic objectives of the Republic of Turkey Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources has been offered. With the obtained portfolio scenario, the research reveals findings that support the goals of ETKB. Accordingly in proportion to the energy sources used to meet increasing demand, it is predicted that while the use of coal, natural gas and hydroelectric within this production will decrease by 10.6%, 3%, and 4.3% respectively, the use of wind, sun and geothermal will increase by 1.68%, 4.34%, and 2.98% respectively. As a result, the suggested plan reduces the rates of external dependency, fossil fuel use, and emission values while increasing the use of renewable energy sources, employment potential, and security of supply. The results of the research are of great importance in terms of demonstrating that the goals in the 20-year strategic plan of ETKB are consistent.	Sustainable energy planning, Energy efficiency, Decision theory, Data preprocessing, Analytical hierarchy process
251	Antibacterial and Optical Properties of Mn Doped ZnO Nanopowders Synthesized via Spray Drying and Subsequent Thermal Decomposition	"Mn doped ZnO nanopowders with homogenous particle distribution were synthesized using spray drying and thermal decomposition dual methods. Synthesis was carried out in spray drying slurry containing zinc acetate powders followed by calcining the as-prepared powders at 300, 400, and 500oC. Mn doping was achieved by adding manganese (II) acetate at different concentrations between 0.01-0.05 M during the synthesis. The obtained powders were characterized by a variety of characterization techniques. The results of phase analysis revealed that Mn-doped ZnO nanopowders having a single hexagonal structured ZnO phase. According to the results of microstructural and UV-vis characterizations; morphologies and optical properties of the Mn-doped ZnO nanopowders were affected by Mn doping. Furthermore, the results of this study exhibited that the addition of Mn have a significant influence on the antibacterial performance of the synthesized ZnO nanopowders."	Mn doped ZnO, Spray drying, Optical properties, Antibacterial properties
252	Polyamide 12/Antimony Trioxide/Sepiolite or Boron Composites: Mechanical Properties and Flame Retardancy	This study reports on the mechanical and flame-retardancy properties of polyamide 12 (PA 12) based composites reinforced with antimony trioxide, sepiolite, or boron powders. These composites were fabricated by the twin-screw extruder and hot-press techniques. The microstructural characteristics and flame-retardancy of the PA 12-based composite samples were obtained by using a scanning electron microscope, a vertical UL-94 burning, and limiting oxygen index tests. The Shore-D hardness, Charpy impact, and tensile tests were conducted to reveal the mechanical performance of composites. The PA 12/antimony trioxide/sepiolite sample presented the best mechanical performance. The additions of antimony trioxide/boron into the PA 12 matrix gave the best contribution to the flame-retardancy.	PA 12, Sepiolite, Boron, Mechanical properties, Flame-retardant properties
253	The Influence of High Temperature on the Petrographical, Gloss and Roughness Properties of Natural Stones	Natural stones are generally used in buildings as building and covering stones. External factors such as fire cause irreversible damage to buildings both structurally and aesthetically. High temperatures can cause damage to the surface and microstructure of natural stone. It is important to know the degree of damage of natural stones in advance in terms of choosing the place of use. In this study, the effects of high temperature on the petrographical, gloss and roughness of natural stones were investigated. To this end, natural stone samples were heated between 100oC and 900oC temperatures and kept for 1 hour at these temperatures. Then, the petrographical, gloss and roughness properties of natural stone samples were determined. As a result, a decrease in the gloss values and an increase in the roughness values of the samples were observed due to the deterioration of the mineralogical structure of natural stones at 700oC and above temperatures.	Natural stones, High temperature, Petrographical properties, Gloss, Roughness
257	Investigation of the Effects of Discontinuities on the Mechanical Properties of Micro Lattice Structures Produced by the Selective Laser Melting Method	In this study, the effects of defects such as dust, voids and geometric distortions occurring in micro lattice structures produced by selective laser melting on mechanical properties were investigated. Micro lattice structures are made of 316L stainless steel material, in the form of a body-centered cubic (BCC) structure, with struts of 200 µm diameter. Defects occurring on the surface was modeled realistically using the scanning electron microscope images. The mechanical properties of the structure were examined by using the experimental and finite element method with compression tests. As a result of the tests carried out, it was observed that the finite element results converged to the experimental data by increasing the number of cells and increasing the number of wires accordingly. In the realistic modelling of the compression tests, considering the analysis time and the convergence to the experimental results, it is found out that at least two half-cells should be modeled. Although it is seen that the micro powders adhering on the part do not have much effect on the stress value, it has been determined that the strain value change makes it more realistic due to the early contact areas.	Micro Lattice Structures, Selective Laser Melting, Cellular Materials, Additive Manufacturing, Finite Element Analysis
259	Optimization of Thrust Force with Taguchi Method and Estimation by Regression Analysis in Drilling of Composite Materials	Glass Fibre Reinforced Plastic (GFRP) composites are used in many engineering applications due to their superior properties than other materials. Drilling is widely used in the assembly of these composites. It is very important to determine the drilling parameters for high hole surface quality, minimum deformation and thrust force when drilling GFRP materials. Therefore, optimum drilling conditions must be determined to minimize hole surface damage during the drilling process. In this study, the thrust force in the drilling process was optimized by using the Taguchi Method. In addition, mathematical models have been developed to predict thrust force. The contribution rates of the drilling parameters on the thrust force were determined by analysis of variance. According to variance analysis, it was seen that the most effective parameter on the thrust force was the feed rate. Taguchi Method, first and second order regression models were used to estimate thrust force. The results obtained were compared with the experimental results. Among the developed models, the model with the highest prediction ability is the second-order regression model with the highest R2 value (98.14%) and the lowest average absolute error value (1.86%). When the three-dimensional graphs are examined, it has been shown that the thrust force decreases as the amount of multi-walled carbon nanotubes and the cutting speed increases, and the thrust force increases as the amount of feed increases. Additionally, when three-dimensional graphs are examined, it has been shown that as the % multi-walled carbon nanotube ratio and cutting spees increases, the thrust force decreases and the thrust force increases as the feed rate increases.	Drilling process, GFRP, Thrust force, Taguchi Method, Regression Analysis, Variance Analysis, Multi wall carbon nanotube
260	Investigation of Coating Thickness and Surface Properties in Electrolithic Ni Coating of 2842, MS58 and Al 6013 Materials	In this study, the effect of 2842, MS58 ve Al 6013 materials on electroplate Ni coating and the change of surface roughness after coating were investigated. In the experiments, Ç 2842 steel, MS 58 brass and Al 6013 aluminum alloy materials are coated with Ni. These materials were turned at different feed rates (0,065-0,13 mm/rev) by lathe and different surface roughness were obtained on the samples. Then the samples were coated with Ni. After the coating process, coating thickness and surface roughness were measured. Visual examinations were made and coating quality was examined. As a result of the experiments, a thicker Ni layer (43 µm) was obtained on the MS 58 material according to other materials. The high electrical conductivity of the coated material increases the coating speed. However, the low conductivity value improves the quality of the coating surface. The surface roughness value of the steel material has decreased in the range of 33-57% thanks to the coating. In Al 6013 material, surface roughness was increased in rate of 94-107% after coating, at the same time superficial defects in the form of pits occured.	Electroplating, Nickel, Surface roughness, Coating thickness
261	Investigation of the Effect of Using Limestone and Volcanic Slag Filler on Strength in Hot Bituminous Mixtures	In study, basalt, which is frequently used in highways, was used as coarse-fine aggregate and control filler. Limestone and volcanic slag were used as alternative filler materials. After determining the physical, chemical and mechanical properties of the aggregates, Marshall stability test was carried out using bitumen at the rate of 4,5, 5, 5,5 6, 6,5% in appropriate gradation. A total of 45 samples were casted as 3 samples per bitumen percentage. After determining the optimum bitumen percentage, used samples basalt, limestone and volcanic slag were compared according to the highway technical specifications. As a result of the study, it was determined that limestone fillers can be used as alternative fillers because they reduce the optimum bitumen rate, do not exceed the limit value according to the methylene blue test result and there are many limestone quarries in the region.	Marshall stability, Filler, Bituminous hot mix, Basalt, Limestone
262	Face Anti-Spoofing Scheme Using Handcraft Based and Deep Learning Methods	Malicious parties which impersonate systems by fake identities affect recognition performance of biometric systems. This study focuses on a strength anti-spoofing scheme based on decision level fusion to monitor individuals in term of real and fake. The proposed fake detection scheme involves consideration of both handcrafted and deep learned techniques on face images to differentiate real and fake individuals. In this context, convolutional neural network (CNN) and Log-Gabor filter methods are used to learn deep representations and extract facial features of images respectively. In order to improve the robustness of proposed anti-spoofing framework, fusion of Log-Gabor and CNN methods is considered by applying decision-level-fusion technique. Finally, the performance of proposed anti- spoofing scheme is examined on public spoof databases such as Print-Attack and Replay-Attack face databases to detect fake facial images.	Spoof attacks, Handcrafted texture extraction, Convolutional neural network, Decision level fusion
263	Investigation of Occupational Diseases Seen in Mining Sector in Turkey	Mining is one of the main sectors in which danger and risk factors causing occupational accidents and diseases are frequently encountered. One of the main goals of occupational health and safety is to keep employees from the risk factors that may adversely affect the health of employees in the working environment and to obstruct occupational diseases. In this work, the factors that may cause occupational diseases in the mining industry were examined. The changes in the number of mining companies, employees with in the number of occupational diseases emerged in mining and other sectors between 2010 and 2018 in Turkey were analyzed. It was determined that there was a huge difference between the number of those who caught an occupational disease reported to the Social Security Institution and the number of occupational patients expected according to the number of employees. In addition, protection policies were proposed to fight against these diseases.	Occupational disease, Mining sector, Occupational health and safety
265	Determination Of Thermal Conductivity, Physical And Mechanical Properties Of Brick Materials Used In Historical Buildings	"This study on historical building materials includes experimental works of stone, brick and mortar building materials used in ruins such as Kremna, Incirlihan Caravanserai, Adada, Cattle Crusade, Zorzila and Psidia Antioch, which were located in the provinces of our region (Isparta and Burdur) in the past. These historical structures examined; It covers one or more periods of Hellenistic, Roman, Byzantine and Seljuk periods. Thermal conductivity (Thermal Conduction) was applied on the building materials taken from the buildings in these historical places in the laboratory. The data obtained from the experiments; thermal conductivity properties of the samples. In this thesis, weka (model) equations were formed and the relations between unit volume weight, specific gravity, compressive strength, flexural strength and thermal conductivity were determined. These characteristic features are; It has enabled us to have knowledge', 'about the manufacturing of stone, brick and mortar materials used in historical buildings in the past times according to chronological history order, components of the building materials used and construction techniques. Thus, information about technological behaviors and production techniques of historical tribes was obtained. These conclusions may shed light on the renewal and improvement issues that will be applied in order to strengthen the historical structures in the future. As a result, the examination of the materials used in the historical buildings will provide us with important contributions in revealing the technical and detail of the historical structures surviving to the present day by establishing a bridge between the past, present and future."	Brick, historical buildings, thermal conductivity, density, heat transmission coefficient, measuring device, restoration
268	Effective Stress Based Assessment of Seismic Stability Condition and Permanent Displacements of Saturated Cohesionless Infinite Slopes	Seismic failure and deformation behavior of slopes is dominated by various mechanisms. Initial stress state due to static loading conditions in addition to inertial and weakening effects due to seismic exci-tation are among the main mechanisms. Inertial effects arise from seismic shear stresses. When they add on to initial static shear stresses, combined shear stresses may exceed available shear strength temporarily and lead to permanent displacements. Weakening effects, on the other hand, arise from straining of the soil mass giving rise to excess po-rewater pressure generation in cohesionless soils and cyclic degradation effects in cohesive soils which result in reduction in the available shear strength and stiffness. In the context of this paper, effective stress based seismic response analysis and Modified Newmark Method for shear strength re-duction effects are used in coordination with each other in order to investigate the effect of mentioned factors on seismic stability and deformation beha-vior of saturated cohesionless infinite slopes.	effective stress based analysis, seismic slope stability, inertial and weakening effects, excess porewater pressure, critical seismic acceleration coefficient, permanent displacements
270	Modelling Results Of Liquefaction Tests On A Nonplastic Silt	Liquefaction is simply defined as the sudden incre-ase in pore water pressure as a result of cyclic loa-ding, which causes excessive ground settlements and damage in overlying or buried structures. Many studies in literature focused on evaluation of liquefaction susceptibility. These methods can be classified as a) stress-based b) strain based c) energy based methods d) numerical modelling ba-sed analysis and e) Arias-intensity based methods. In this study, an alternative approach for assess-ment of liquefaction susceptibility is aimed by use of clustering algorithms. In this regard, results of 54 cyclic triaxial tests results on a nonplastic silt inc-luding post-liquefaction volume changes was used for evaluation and classification of liquefaction be-havior after cyclic triaxial testing. In the experimen-tal part, specimens prepared at increasing relative densities between 30% and 80%, at a step of 10% were consolidated under 100 kPa effective confi-ning pressure. The results revealed that, unsupervi-sed clustering algorithms are reliable tools in clas-sification of liquefaction state and post-liquefaction volumetric strains of nonplastic silts. In this regard, cyclic stress ratio and number of cycles are useful inputs for classification of liquefaction state. In ad-dition, cyclic stress ratio, number of cycles, pore water pressure ratio and cyclic axial strain can be used to classify the post-liquefaction volumetric strains. Use of ANFIS depending on combinations of cyclic stress ratio, number of cycles, pore water pressure ratio, initial relative density and cyclic axial strain end up with promising results in esti-mation of post-liquefaction volumetric strain, however, these parameters are far from modelling factor of safety to liquefaction.	Hard k-means classifier, fuzzy c-means algorithm, self organising maps, ANFIS, liquefaction, silt, cyclic triaxial tests
273	PREDICTING THE LOCATION OF THE UTERINE CERVICAL OS FROM 2D IMAGES WITH CNN	In an automated cervical cancer test, the prediction of the location of the cervical os from 2D images is required. Cervical os is the reference point to determine the lesion's location by either using cervical four-quadrant location or by 12 o’clock locations. Precise detection of the cervical os point ensures correct addressing of the lesions. This study used a 6-layer convolutional neural network to predict the center of the cervical os’ coordinates (x,y) on 2D grayscale images. We used a holistic approach without masking any visual element to predict the location of the cervical os. The 2D images were obtained using a telecentric lens and a CCD camera with light wavelengths of 500 550 nanometers. Because of the limited number of image samples (145 images), we used augmentation techniques to increase the training set size by rotating each original image in 1-degree increments from -30 degrees to +30 degrees relative to the center of the image. The 6-layer convolutional neural network was tested on 21 unseen cervix images using augmentation data. The outcomes showed that the image center-based augmentation technique improves the prediction performance. We obtained 2.4 RMSE in predicting the location of the cervical os.	Cervical os Prediction, Cervix Uteri, Convolutional Neural Networks, Data Augmentation
274	A NEW APPROACH TO OPTIMUM CLUSTERING IN MODEL-BASED CLUSTER ANALYSIS	Determining the number of components in finite mixture models is an important problem, and normal mixture models are frequently used in finite mixture distributions. In this study, In this study, a new clustering method is proposed for modeling multivariate data set with TOPSIS method. In the proposed method, each variable of multivariate data is modeled with univariate normal mixture distributions and a decision matrix is created by using the information criterion values obtained according to the number of components. The number of components in the variables was determined with TOPSIS method using the decision matrix. Homogeneous variables without components are eliminated and the size is reduced, and alternative component numbers are calculated for mixture models that can be formed according to the number of components in heterogeneous variables. Among the alternative number of components, the most suitable component number and suitable mixture model were determined by TOPSIS method. Thus, in multivariate data, number of clusters were estimated with dimension reduction and variable selection. The success of the proposed approach has been tested on the real dataset and the number of clusters of the data set has been determined correctly. In addition, this approach increased the classification success of the observations.	Information Criteria, Model-Based Clustering According to Variable Components, Gaussian Mixture Models, TOPSIS
275	PREDICTION OF HEAT-TREATED CEDAR WOOD SWELLING AND SHRINKAGE VALUES WITH ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS AND RANDOM FOREST ALGORITHM	Wood material is a natural, sustainable, renewable and environmentally friendly material that can be used in both structural and non-structural applications. However, one of the most important negative features of wood material is that it is a hygroscopic material. Heat treatment application increase dimensional stability of the wood material and becomes more hydrophobic. In this study, firstly, the contact angle values of Cedar wood have been determined in the tangential and radial direction by dropping them on the surface of the wood material. Then the swelling and shrinkage amounts of the same samples were determined. TS 4084 standard was used to determine the swelling and shrinkage amounts. As a result, shrinkage and swelling amounts of the samples were estimated by using artificial neural network (ANN) and Random Forest (RF) algorithm. In the estimation made by RF and ANN methods, contact angle values were used as input. It has been determined that the predictions made with RF Algorithm give the most accurate results (tangential direction, R2= 0.91, radial direction, R2= 0.97). As a result, it has been determined by RF Algorithm that shrinkage and swelling values of a wood material whose con-tact angle values are known can be better predicted.	Heat Treatment, Cedar, Prediction, Artificial Neural Networks, Random Forest Algorithm
287	ADAPTIVE KALMAN FILTERING BASED OPTIMAL CONTROL OF TUBERCULOSIS DYNAMICS WITH EXOGENOUS REINFECTIONS	Examining epidemiological diseases such as tuberculosis through mathematical models is useful for interpreting the future dynamics of the disease. In the presence of these models, it is possible to calculate strategies that can exterminate the disease. In this study, an adaptive unscented Kalman filter (AUKF) -based optimal controller has been designed to control unknown tuberculosis dynamics in individuals treated with active tuberculosis, at home or in hospital. The investigation of the treatment of tuberculosis patients at home and in hospital due to exogenous reinfections helps to search for optimal treatment options. In this way, even in the presence of a small group of infectious people, the long-term persistence of the disease is thought to be prevented. According to the estimation and control results obtained from the tuberculosis model, it was concluded that the designed adaptive optimal controller was able to make the right decision about the transfer of infected persons to the home or to the hospital.	Optimal control, Adaptive control, Kalman filter, Tuberculosis, Exogenous reinfection
290	Finite Element Analysis of Micro Beam in a MEMS-Based Microfluidic Channel	It is well known that the physical properties of a micro beam are largely dependent on the fluid and micro channels in which the beam is immersed. In this study, the finite element analysis of the micro beam within the microfluidic channel based on MEMS (Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems) is aimed to be made in detail. These analyzes include von Mises stress, pressure quantities, velocities, and displacements during movement. Using the Euler-Bernoulli equation for the beam, a micro-beam fixed in a fluid is modeled and analyzed. Unstable Stokes equations are solved using a Helmholtz decomposition technique in a two-dimensional plane containing micro-beam sections. The finite element method using the Comsol Multiphysics software results is compared with the current validation method, and an acceptable match is obtained between them. Pressure, velocity, and displacement analyzes were created by ensuring all boundary conditions. The current formulation has been shown to be a suitable and novel approach to solve the problem with good accuracy. As a result, a theoretical model is provided that can be used in the design and interpretation of density, viscosity, and microfluidic sensors.	Microfluidic, Micro Beam, MEMS, Comsol
292	Natural Rubber Production from Plants Growing in Nature: Review	The pandemic process that developed worldwide in 2020 has deeply affected human life and countries. Countries were required to develop more enclosed governance and attitudes in economic and social terms. Uncertainties about how long the pandemic process will continue and whether similar processes may occur again, have forced countries to take precautions in social and especially economic terms. Within the scope of these precautions, countries with the ability to cut external dependence and meet all requirements from their own assets can easily cope with these processes and will be freer in an economic sense. This study aims to offer an insight into researchs that will be performed about natural rubber production using plants growing in our country. A research was performed into alternative plants to rubber trees, which only grow in certain areas of the world and are used for natural rubber production required for many areas of our lives. Plants which self-cultivate in nature, methods for obtaining natural rubber from these plants and materials with high economic value, apart from natural rubber, that can be obtained from these plants were studied. Many plants which grow naturally in nearly all regions of our country can form the basis for many types of material with high added value. It is very clear that all types of studies which will include these resources in our economy are very valuable.	Natural rubber, Guayule, Taraxacum kok-saghyz, Prickly lettuce, Goldenrod
294	NOISE EXPOSURE LEVELS IN OLIVE OIL EXTRACTION PLANTS AND ITS EFFECTS ON EMPLOYEES	The aim of this study is to determine noise levels in continuous olive oil extraction plants and to evaluate their effects on worker health. The study was conducted in 17 continuous system plants. The sound pressure level (dBA) measurements were carried out at the ear levels of operators working in all units used in olive oil production. In the study, considering A weighted equivalent sound pressure levels and working durations, personal daily noise exposure levels were calculated. It was determined that the daily personal noise exposure levels in the loading units located outside the plants ranged from 65 to 85 dBA, and these values were found to be between 72 and 99 dBA in all other indoor units. As a result, it was observed that the upper daily noise exposure action value (85 dBA) was exceeded in all indoor units.	Sound pressure level, Indoor noise, Daily noise exposure, Ergonomics
300	Temperature Characterization of Electromechanical Load Driven Soft Dielectric Elastomer	Dielectric elastomers (DE) are a type of polymer with features such as being exposed to an electric field, providing great deformations, resembling live muscle and can be used as a sensor. In this study, we investigate the temperature changes occurring in high voltage and different frequencies in Dielectric Elastomer Actuators (DEA). Temperature variations on the material are tested by applying three different signals, namely square, sine, and triangular wave, on the DEA surface. Temperature fluctuations are measured according to different frequencies, time and voltage with the help of thermal cameras. In the experimental study, it is seen that factors such as the formation of temperatures on DEAs, electrical signals, voltage, ambient temperature and prestressing. It is seen that the temperature value on the surface of the DEA reaches the highest value at about 3 Hz in square wave form. At the same time, it is seen that the applied voltage and temperature values are directly proportional. As the temperature values increased suddenly at high voltage, tearing occurred. This study is important in terms of paying attention to the surface temperatures of DEAs used in new soft robots, biomedical applications and sensors.	SoftRobotic, Dielectric Elastomer Actuators, Artificial Muscle, Temperature Characterization
301	In Vitro Micropropagation of Cannabis Sativa L. (Hemp)	Cannabis sativa (Hemp) is a plant used in many industrial areas. As hemp is a dioecious (and monoic varieties developed in recent years) and allogamy plant, it causes many problems in breeding and cultivation for a specific purpose. For this reason, the clonal reproduction of genotypes to be used as a parent is of great importance. Micropropagation application, which is a biotechnological method for clonal reproduction, gives successful results. Micropropagation offers the production of many plants with the same gene sequence in a shorter time. In this study, previous studies about explant source and its sterilization, nutrient media used, growth regulators and rooting for hemp micropropagation have been examined, and the most suitable micropropagation conditions of hemp were determined. In the future, this study will guide the reproduction of suitable clones for breeding and greenhouse or open field cultivation.	Cannabis sativa, in vitro, micropropagation
307	CRUCIAL PARAMETERS TO BE CONSIDERED FOR SELECTION OF ROTARY TRICONE BITS	Tricone bit is the most common used type of rotary drilling bits in surface mining. Even though', 'IADC is usually used to select these bits, there are many parameters which affect drilling rate and', 'durability of them. Users have tendency to select bits with higher IADC codes, since unqualified', 'productions are becoming widespread in these days. This causes decreasing drilling rates and', 'increasing costs. Firstly, a bit should be produced with right materials and proper metallurgical', 'processes. Design parameters are also important to be appropriate for the formation drilled. In', 'order to increase performance of selected bit, value of working parameters such as feed force', 'and rotary speed should be defined according to formation properties during the operation. Users', 'should consider not only bit cost but also cost of all drilling operation when they select proper bit.	Tricone bits, Rotary drilling method, IADC, Drilling rate, Bit wear, Cost of drilling operation
309	Evaluation of the Characteristics of Surface Ice Layer of Çıldır Lake	The frozen lake strength is important for transportation or annual sportive activities as winter festival at the Çıldır Lake which is the second biggest lake of the Eastern Anatolia Region of Turkey. Potential hazards need to be identified and steps taken to eliminate the hazards or control them to provide health and safety of the public usage. Therefore, determination of the freezing mechanism and crack structure of the lake is the main scope of the study. Within this context, Çıldır Lake were evaluated by different ways as ground surveying measurements meteorological measurements and remote sensing methods. Landsat 8 OLI satellite images were used for thermal calculations and controlled classification, and meteorological data and ice thickness measurements were carried out within the scope of ground measurements. Ice thickness measurements were interpolated and Landsat 8 OLI data based B1 band which is used especially for coastal and aerosol based studies and thermal analysis results was evaluated together. Also, common ice safety formula of the Gold,1960 was used which depends on the ground measurements of the ice thickness. The results showed that, the fracture structure of the lake is variable, the ice cover should be monitored and analysis before every winter term. According to the formula of Gold, 1960, the maximum load calculations that can be carried depending on the ice thickness of surface are presented.	Remote sensing, ice fracture, frozen lake
310	INVESTIGATION OF THE AMENABILITY OF A COPPER-RICH REFRACTORY GOLD ORE TO CYANIDE LEACHING	The production of gold from refractory gold ores has been increasing due to the exhaustion of free milling gold ores. The presence of cyanicides (e.g., copper minerals) and encapsulation of gold in minerals such as pyrite and arsenopyrite are common reasons for refractoriness of gold ores. In this study, the amenability of a copper-rich gold ore (108 g/t Au, 1.60% Cu) to cyanide leaching was investigated. Direct cyanide leaching of the ore showed that the gold extraction was very low by 18.4% over 24 h., indicating that the ore is highly refractory. Sulphuric acid pretreatment for the removal of acid-soluble copper was found to be not effective to achieve high gold extractions at the subsequent cyanide leaching. Leaching at high NaCN concentrations (1-8 g/L) yielded limited Au extractions of ?47.2%. Ultra-fine grinding (UFG) (d80: 8-73 ?m) as a pretreatment route followed by cyanide leaching also could provide Au recoveries of just below 54.1%. The findings showed that the ore is double-refractory and needs the employment of more effective pretreatment process(es) to achieve acceptable gold extractions (>90%) in subsequent cyanidation stage.	Gold, Copper-gold ores, Cyanide leaching, Acid pretreatment, Ultra-fine grinding, Refractory gold ore
311	USABILITY OF CONTROL CHARTS TO MONITOR VARIATION OF QUALITY PARAMETERS IN COAL-FIRED THERMAL POWER PLANTS	During the production of electrical energy from coal-fired thermal power plants, calorific and unit power values are the most important indicators for evaluating the productivity of the process. These values are measured periodically, and the resulting measurements are monitored to detect root causes of variation that may occur in production process. As this application is currently performed by manual methods, the probability of obtaining incorrect results is quite high. This study aims to statistically analyze process control on the variation of quality parameters and detect root causes of unusual variations using Shewhart and cumulative sum control charts. For this purpose, the usability of these control charts was tested on Afşin-Elbistan B thermal power plant. As a result, these charts identified fluctuations in the efficiency of generating electrical energy and unusual variations in the process. Furthermore, it is recommended that these control charts could be developed and applied in similar type of process.	Statistical process control, Control charts, Calorific value, Unit power
313	Financial Performance Analysis in Maritime Transportation Through Sector Balance Sheets of the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey	"Maritime transport; It is a commercial activity that allows people and cargo to be replaced by ships and similar vehicles floating in the sea. It is the most preferred type of transport in our country and in the world especially because it is cheap in international transport, it offers the possibility to carry large quantities of cargo at once and it is safe. Sea transport is highly affected by global economic fluctuations as it is an international commercial activity. These effects are reflected in the financial position of the maritime companies and the changes in financial ratios can be monitored in the sector. Financial ratio analysis is an important reference for both business owners and non-business government, potential investors and financial institutions as they are the financial performance indicators of the related sector. The aim of this study is to determine the financial performance of maritime transport companies between 2014 and 2016 by the rate analysis method. In this context, the financial ratios shared under the heading - H-502 Sea and Coastal Waters Freight Transportation, which are among the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey Sector Statistics, were determined and the financial performance of the sector was interpreted based on these ratios. The study is limited to the financial indicators of maritime freight transport between 2014-2016 as it is current data. The results of the study are important in terms of providing a financial perspective to the academicians and representatives of the maritime freight transport sector."	Maritime Transport, Ratio Analysis., Financial Analysis
315	PREDICTION OF BLAST INDUCED GROUND VIBRATIONS BY USING ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS	"In this study, artificial neural networks (ANN) were used as a tool for estimation of blast-induced', 'vibrations. For this purpose, the blast shots carried out in a quarry in Istanbul were monitored and', 'the blast-induced vibrations were recorded.', 'Peak Particle Velocities (PPV) and Scaled Distances (SD) of 24 events were recorded in the', 'first 12 shots, subjected to statistical analysis and the site-specific ground vibration propagation', 'equation was obtained. This data set was also used to train an ANN model while SD was an', 'input and PPV was an output; and a new model, that used to estimate blast-induced vibrations', 'in the related field, was developed. Using the vibration propagation equation and the developed', 'ANN model, blast-induced vibrations were estimated for 19 shots performed subsequently, and', 'the results were compared with 37 recorded vibration data. It was seen that there was linear', 'relationship with a high correlation between the values calculated with the equation and recorded', 'data; and there was linear relationship with a higher correlation between outputs of ANN model', 'and recorded data."	Blasting, Vibration, Artifical Neural Networks
317	Resistance Analyses of A Traditional Black Sea Type Fishing Ship with CFD in Calm Water	The forms of fishing vessels are shaped according to the fishing cultures of the nations, the sea conditions which are operated, and the type of fishing gears. Therefore, each country's fishing vessel is unique, and its forms are different from each other. The study presented, resistance analyses of a Black Sea type fishing boat, which is designed regarding the forms of fishing vessels built in the Sürmene Yeniay-Çamburnu (Mahno) shipyards of the Black Sea Region, is investigated with Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD). The fishing vessel is 35.6 meters long. Resistance analyses are made in calm water and in the range of Fn 0.028-0.420 values (1-15 knots). Resistance values, obtained from CFD calculations, are presented. Wave pattern, which are occurred on the ship surface and the free water surface, are shown. The wave pattern, which are formed by the Black Sea type fishing vessel form, are interpreted by comparing them with the wave systems of similar ships. It is determined that the economic service speed of the traditional Black Sea type of fishing vessel is around 11 knots (Fn 0.308) considering the resistance graphic and wave characteristics, which are obtained outcomes of CFD calculations. It is emphasized that bulb optimization should be done to increase economic speed.	Black Sea Type Fishing Ship, Computational Fluid Dynamics, CFD, Resistance, Wave pattern
323	Emergency Demolition Management System in Turkey: Basic Approaches, the Elazığ Earthquake Example and Suggestions	"The risk of collapse of buildings that have lost their structural stability is the foremost public health and security risk that might be encountered following a natural disaster that takes place in a residential area. Moreover, some of Turkey’s building stock is of such a low quality that, some buildings run the risk of entering the category of ‘‘buildings that may collapse’’ even without a precursor natural disaster. The need for swift demolition is increasing due not only to the increasing effects of natural disasters on domiciles, but also to the quality of the building stock. Having said these, swift demolition is neither sufficiently conceptualized in Turkey, nor there exists a management model. In this study, the ways in which the emergency demolition system has been reflected unto national legislature has been investigated chronologically; and the stake-holding institutions and the rules and procedures have been examined. In this context, suggestions are proposed towards a comprehensive management, taking into account the administrative, technical, environmental and social aspects of emergency demolition and incorporating the lessons drawn from the Elazığ Earthquake and other data collected. The emergency demolition management system in Turkey with the current approach is insufficient in terms of effectiveness, efficiency and productivity and is unsustainable in the long run."	Emergency Demolition, Disaster Response Plan, Administrative Action, Demolition Management
329	Evaluation of the performance of detecting the manhole used in the telecommunication sector from the street-level images	Within the scope of the study, with the proposed method, called innovative method, the manholes used in the telecommunication sector are identified with the deep learning approach from the street-level images and location information of these manholes are produced. In order to evaluate the performance of the innovative method, the results obtained with it in three different study regions located within the borders of the city of Istanbul were compared with the results of the traditional method currently used in the telecommunication sector. During the comparative analysis, the differences between coordinate values of the manholes produced by both methods were determined, the reasons for these differences were emphasized and the possible improvements were discussed. According to the findings, it is concluded that the innovative method cannot replace the traditional method in the current situation. However, if both methods are used together, effectiveness and efficiency in the applications in the telecommunications sector will increase. Nevertheless, in the near future, it is anticipated that the innovative method will replace the traditional method if the suggestions made within the scope of the study are taken into consideration in the solutions of detecting the assets and determining the assets’ coordinates.	Telecommunication, Street-level image, Tagged (geo)spatial data, Deep learning, Performance evaluation, (Geo)Spatial intelligence
335	Detection of potential afforestation fields by analytical hierarchy process and geographical information systems	Recently, millions of hectares of forests are disappearing every year due to the effects caused by people. This situation has made the concept of deforestation one of the biggest problems of our age. Existing forests need to be protected in order to combat deforestation and ensure a sustainable forest management. However, determining the most suitable potential afforestation areas and carrying out afforestation works of these areas are of great importance. In this context, Geographical Information Systems (GIS), which is a location-based information system, can be used in order to easily examine the current situation in the digital environment for forest existence and to identify potential afforestation areas. In this study, it is aimed to determine the potential afforestation areas within Sivas province border automatically by GIS based Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) method. In order to determine these sites in a short time, accurately, effectively and automatically, a model builder based interface has been developed in the GIS software environment, while Matlab based user interface program has been developed to calculate the criterion weights used in AHP. The result maps obtained from the method presented were compared with the current satellite images of the study area in Google Earth and the previously projected afforestation areas spatially. As a result of this comparison, approximately 50% (Google Earth) and 51.30% (previously projected afforestation areas) overlap in the assessment made by taking into account the depth of the soil, while the overlap is approximately 70% (Google Earth) and 81.13% (previously projected afforestation areas).	Analytical hierarchy process, Geographical information systems, Afforestation, Deforestation
336	A RESEARCH ON THE ADAPTATION OF PRIVATELY CONTRACTED ARMED SECURITY PERSONNEL (PCASP) TO SHIPPING	The aim of this study is to identify the factors affecting the adaptation process of PCASP, which are temporarily employed on ships, to provide security in the area of piracy and to reveal their perceptions on these variables. For these purposes, a descriptive and partial exploratory research was carried out using qualitative and quantitative research techniques. The questionnaire form created in light of the variables determined as a result of the literature review and expert opinion was applied to a total of 125 PCASP from 36 nationalities. According to the results of the research, the dimensions that determine the adaptation of the PCASP to shipping have been gathered under 6 factors (Career, Cooperation and Compatibility, Personality Fitness, Emotional Conditions, Job Conditions, Physical Conditions). In this context, a positive significant relationship was found between career and cooperation and compatibility dimensions, and a negative significant relationship was found between military experience and personality fitness variables. In addition to filling the gap in the relevant literature, this research has contributed in managing adaptation process of the PCASP to the shipping and to the improvement of the ideal personnel selection process for the security companies.	PCASP, Piracy, Security
339	Examination of Driving Courses Steering Training Exam Evaluation Criteria Using Pareto Analysis Method	"Traffic rules in Turkey, the process of getting a driver’s license are all determined in the Highway Traffic Laws number 2918. A trainee who want to get the driver's license Turkey, should continue to private motor vehicle driving courses opened according to 5580 Private Education Institutions to and needs to be successful in both theoretical and steering exams made by the Ministry of Education. When the literature on the subject is examined, it has been observed that although there are many studies on the theoretical training and exams given in driving courses, no studies have been conducted on the effectiveness of the driving training exam and exam evaluation criteria. In this study, the mistakes made by the candidate drivers in the steering exams held in 2018 were classified according to 18 titles and 125 propositions in the ""Steering training course exam evaluation form"". This classification was evaluated with the Pareto analysis method and the titles and propositions that constitute the important minority were determined. When a pareto analysis was made, it was observed that 5 of the 18 error titles constituted 83.5% of the entire group. These are respectively; back parking, taking off (activating the vehicle), questioning vehicle information, taking off on the inclined road, turning right-left (L) while going back. These titles determined in the continuation of the study were analyzed within themselves and the results obtained were opened for discussion."	driver, driver training, steering exam, Pareto analysis
340	Examination of the Relationship Between Vehicle Segment Used and Driver Behaviors and Driver Skills	Road safety depends on many factors related to road users, vehicles and the environment, and their relationship with each other. As the factor “drivers” is the most studied and considered road users, driver behaviors are generally examined in traffic safety researches. Apart from individuals and personality traits, there are many factors that shape driver behavior. For example, the capacity of a vehicle is one of the factors that affect drivers' inclinations to violate and/or make mistakes, and to behave aggressively in traffic. In this context, the purpose of this study is to examine the possible relationship(s) between driver behavior and/or driving skill with the vehicle segment used. The current study was conducted with 183 drivers aged between 20 and 62. The data were collected from the participants via a web-based survey battery, including demographic form, the Driver Behavior Questionnaire (DBQ) and the Driver Skill Inventory (DSI). A bivariate correlation, Analyses of Covariance (ANCOVA) and Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) was performed to test the relationships between the variables. Correlation analysis showed that while vehicle segments were positively correlated with ordinary violations, the segments were found as positively correlated with perceptual motor skills of drivers. Moreover, further studies showed that especially drivers of Segment B, Segment C and Segment D differed from each other regarding perceptual motor skills. This relationship, tested between driver skills and the vehicle segment, is thought to be useful in future studies with more detailed analysis.	traffic safety, driver behaviors, driver skills, vehicle segment
346	CORRECTION - Geochemical Behavior of the Redox Sensitive Elements in Reduction Environments An Example from Turkey: Bozcahöyük (Seyitömer / Kütahya) Field Bituminous Rocks - (Ali Sarı - Öncü Arslan, MYBD, 2019, 4/2, 14-39)	"CORRECTION NOTICE : The second author's name of the article ""Geochemical Behavior of the Redox Sensitive Elements in Reduction Environments An Example from Turkey: Bozcahöyük (Seyitömer / Kütahya) Field Bituminous Rocks"" which is published in Journal of Engineering and Earth Science Volume 4, Issue 2, Pages: 14-39 was misspelled The corrected authors names given below are Ali SARI1* and Öncü ARSLAN2 (*: Corresponding author). The first author name of the article must be Ali Sarı and the second author name of the article must be Öncü Arslan for the citation of article. We apologize to the authors and other parties for the mistake."	Correction, erratum, second author
369	Artificial Intelligence Helps Protect Smart Homes against Thieves	Interaction with the environments in which humans live is increasing more and more, and Artificial Intelligence (AI) offers significant contributions to this. Although the topic of smart homes has attracted a great deal of attention from researchers, the AI-based application in this area is still in its infancy. In this study, a home security automation system, which is quite simple, but smart and AI-based, is proposed. When the home-dwellers were not at home, the home lighting system tried to be managed with AI at night, as if life was still there. The AI-based smart home physical design was done using Arduino equipment and was tried to be adapted to the real-life environment with software support. As if there was someone at home, a special dataset, which was consisted of nine inputs, one output vector and about 5500 samples was created to turn on/off the home lights in a manner suitable for night life. The home lighting system was successfully managed using an AI-based system that learns nightlife lighting habits.  The proposed system performance was tested in support of commonly used machine learning classification algorithms such as Multi-layer perceptron (MLP), Linear support vector machine (L-SVM), Gaussian Naive Bayes (NB), and linear discriminant analysis (LDA). The accuracy values of MLP, L-SVM and NB algorithms were 96.69%, 94.98% and 91.23%, respectively. Our results show that a home with AI could be safer and more secure against theft.	Artificial intelligence, machine laerning, classification, smart home, security, theft
370	Investigation of Achieving Internal Screw Geometry in Part Produced by Powder Injection Molding	Powder injection molding (PIM) is an ideal technique for the production of precision geometry parts from metal and ceramic powders. In PIM method, a moving core system is needed to obtain screw geometry inside the part. However, making this system is both difficult and time-consuming. In this study, the internal screw geometry in the part has been tried to be obtained with the insert. For this, the part was produced by injecting 316L stainless steel feedstock into the mold, then a hole was drilled with a suitable drill and the M4 screw was pulled. Screw geometry inserts to be placed in the part are coated with hexagonal boron nitride and chrome resistant to high temperature. Thus, it is aimed to prevent the diffusion of the screw geometry in the feedstock area with the insert. The samples prepared were sintered at two different sintering temperatures (1260 °C - 1340 °C) and time (30-90 minutes). In the study, the effect of intermediate layers applied on the insert on screw geometry was investigated. As a result of the experiments, it was determined that hexagonal boron nitride and chromium interlayers on the screwed insert did not prevent diffusion.	Powder injection molding, Screw geometry, Interlayer, Chrome, Hexagonal boron nitride, Sintering, 316 L feedstock
371	Investigation and Analysis of Customer Complaints Handling System of the Companies in Turkey	Companies can offer products and services as long as they satisfy their customers. One of the most significant factors affecting customer satisfaction is to resolve customer complaints. In this study, the survey data was collected related to the customer complaints process evaluation system of Turkish companies and answers were sought for questions such as how many complaints companies received on an industry basis and how long they resolved the complaints. The data was analyzed statistically, and the tests of the hypotheses were carried out. Chi-Square test, Mann Whitney U Test, sign test and correlation analysis were applied for testing hypotheses. According to the results, it is not enough just to start evaluating the customer complaint quickly, it is also very important to get a quick and accurate resolution to the complaint for customer satisfaction. Additionally, it has been found that personnel working in the complaint system should be trained continuously and customers should be involved in the complaint handling processes.	Customer complaint, Customer satisfaction, Statistical analysis, Survey
372	The Investigation on the Possible Use of Simenit Lake Sand as Colorant in Ceramic Glazes	The glazes that cover the ceramic body with a thin layer and form a glassy structure, provide protective layer to the ceramic structure and affect the properties such as color, brightness and surface roughness of the product depending on the chemical composition and firing parameters of the glaze. One of the most important factors for ceramic glazes is color. Pigments, metal oxides or natural sources are used for the coloring of glazes. Nowadays, with the development of technology, the use of natural resources and waste materials as ceramic and glaze raw materials are increasing, and alternative glaze compositions are created with materials obtained from nature as well as the production of commercial glaze.  In this study, the use of sand obtained from the shore of Lake Simenit in Terme District of Samsun province as a new colorant source in transparent glaze was investigated. After grinding process of Simenite Lake Sand (SGK), XRD analysis was performed for phase analysis and XRF was used for determination of chemical composition. In order to determine thermal behavior, heat microscopy and TG/DTA analyses were performed. Then SGK was added to transparent glaze in different proportions and applied on ceramic bodies. Finally, coloring parameters of SGK added glazes were determined and the color transition from yellow to reddish-brown was observed.	Ceramic, Ceramic glazes, Iron oxide, Simenit Lake
373	Evaluation of Strong Ground Motion Records of January 24, 2020 Elazığ Earthquake	"On January 24, 2020 at 8:55 pm local time, the Elazığ-Sivrice earthquake, which was the epicenter of Sivrice with a north latitude of 39.10 east longitudes of 38.35 and a magnitude (Mw) of 6.8 occurred. The earthquake was felt especially in the nearby cities Elazig and Malatya. Many other cities such as Adıyaman, Kahramanmaraş, Adana, Hatay, Osmaniye, Tunceli, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa cities in the region were affected from the earthquake as well.  In this study, the ground motion records of the Elazığ-Sivrice earthquake were examined. Ground motion parameters; Spectral acceleration (SA) and Peak Ground Acceleration (PGA) have been evaluated by 2014 Next Generation Attenuation relations. In addition, the ground motion parameters (MMI, PGA, Sa0.2, Sa1.0) distribution maps were created and compared with the recorded ground motions. In addition to these, the characteristics of the East Anatolian fault zone earthquakes were revealed, by examining the foreshocks/aftershocks. The amount of energy released has been compared with past large-scale earthquakes."	January 24 2020, Mw6.8 Elazig-Sivrice earthquake, Ground motion parameters
374	Decoupled Backstepping Sliding Mode Control of a Ball and Beam System	In this study, a decoupled backstepping sliding mode controller is designed for a ball and beam system as an example of underactuated mechanical systems. The decoupled backstepping sliding mode control method which is a combination of backstepping and sliding mode with a decoupling algorithm is considered to control a ball and beam system. The stability of the system is guaranteed by the design procedure of the controller which is based on the Lyapunov theorem. The effectiveness of the designed controller is verified by simulation tests. Simulation results show that the decoupled backstepping sliding method provides a robust control signal under external disturbances compared to the conventional decoupled sliding mode control method.	Underactuated mechanical systems, Ball and beam system, Sliding mode control, Backstepping control
375	Emotion Recognition From Different Types of Music From Different Cultures	In this study, various machine learning methods were used to recognize emotions on databases of different types of music belonging to different cultures. In order to obtain features from the music in these databases, widely used toolboxes were preferred. Correlation-based feature selection method was applied to all the obtained features. BayesNet, Sequential Minimal Optimization, Logistic Regression and Decision Trees are used as machine learning methods. When BayesNet was applied to the remaining features after the feature selection process, %94,35 recognition accuracy rate was obtained for Turkish Emotional Music Database, %79,62 for Bi-Modal Database, and %75,45 for Soundtrack Database, and better results were achieved than other classifiers. Then, the features obtained from the toolboxes were combined and the selection process was made again. After this process, recognition rates of %95,96, %80,24 and %82,72 were obtained for these databases, respectively.	Music, Emotion recognition, Machine learning
376	Evaluation of CNT/MOSFET Based Active Electrode with ECG, EMG, and EEG Signals	In this study, the electrical circuit equivalents of the previously designed novel CNT/MOSFET based active electrode and commonly used wet electrode are simulated by applying different biopotentials. Responses of the electrode models are compared within the certain skin surface circumstances. Fourier transforms and total harmonic distortion calculations of obtained biopotentials are examined to assess the electrodes. The simulation results demonstrate that the CNT / MOSFET based electrode predominates the wet electrode and can measure biopotentials with high quality.	CNT, MOSFET, Biopotential electrodes, Fourier transform, Total harmonic distortion
379	Mobile Diagnosis of Thyroid based on Ensemble Classifier	The thyroid gland plays a major role in many metabolic activities of the human body. Thyroid disease, which is quite common in humans, affects people's quality of life significantly. Early diagnosis is very important for taking precautions. The mobile diagnostic system can be the solution for early diagnosis especially in rural areas or without going to health institution. This study has been proposed to enable people with mobile devices to obtain quick information about the disease or to seek medical assistance in any matter without going to the hospital. Functional thyroid diagnosis system is designed using mobile device, Android based software application, Database (SQL) and Server (MATLAB based decision algorithms). With the system, functional thyroid disease can be diagnosed using an android based mobile device. Different classification algorithms were searched for the most accurate diagnosis and Ensemble method which has a high success rate for thyroid disease was used in the system. Ensemble classification technique reached a success rate of 99.06% and 99.08% for the first and second data group, respectively. These success rates were calculated by using gold standard test and results were compared with the literature. Obtained test results showed that, the proposed mobile diagnosis system could be used for the diagnosis of the functional thyroid. At the same time, this system can be developed for different diseases.	Thyroid, Mobile Diagnosis, Ensemble Classifier, SQL Server, MATLAB
383	Effect of Dietanolamine on Coating Morphology and Corrosion Resistance in Hydroxyapatite Coatings Made by Sol-Gel Method on Ti6Al4V Alloy	Titanium and its alloys are preferred in biomaterial applications due to their mechanical strength and biotolerant structure. However, if they are corroded in the human body, they can cause the release of harmful ions. Hydroxyapatite is a ceramic and bioactive material, and it is also used as a coating layer for increasing the corrosion resistance of biomaterials. In this study, hydroxyapatite coatings were made using sol-gel method in order to improve the corrosion resistance of Ti6Al4V alloy. By adding different ratios of diethanolamine (DEA, C', '4', 'H', '11', 'NO', '2', ') to the prepared hydroxyapatite solutions, cracked structures that are likely to occur in the sol-gel process have been checked and tried to be reduced. It has been aimed to observe the changes in the overall morphology and corrosion resistance of the coatings. Samples were analyzed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM-EDS) and X-Ray diffraction (XRD). Electrochemical-potentiodynamic corrosion tests were carried out in the prepared simulated body fluid. As a result of the study, it was observed that the cracked structures and the coating thickness increased in morphology with the increase in the DEA contribution rate. It was seen that the addition of DEA increases the corrosion resistance, but the increase in the amount of DEA negatively affects the corrosion resistance.	Ti6Al4V, Sol-gel, Biomaterials, Hydroxyapatite, Diethanolamine
386	Analyzing of Usage Effect of the Distribution Functions for SMDO Algorithm via Benchmark Function with Matlab Toolbox	This paper presents solution comparisons of benchmark functions by using stochastic multi-parameters', 'divergence (SMDO) method with different distribution functions. Using benchmark functions is an', 'important method in measuring the effectiveness of algorithms. Because benchmark functions are used by', 'all algorithm producers while trying their algorithms and this provides a good tool for the others to compare', 'their algorithms with similar procedures. Benchmark functions are used in this paper for the main purpose', 'of analyzing randomization process. It is known that distribution functions take place a vital role in getting', 'random numbers. These random numbers are used in stochastic methods through specifying step size. It', 'is believed that a suitable random number acquisition process can support the search processes of', 'algorithms. In this study the effects of distribution functions on benchmark functions are analyzed. For', 'this purpose, a program is developed with MATLAB. The comparisons via the help of this program is', 'shown in tabular form. The results are analyzed from the viewpoint of whether developing the', 'randomization process makes contribution to problem solving power of algorithms. In this study SMDO', 'algorithm is analyzed with different distribution functions by using different benchmark functions. In', 'addition, in the study, a useful friend-friendly Matlab toolbox is proposed in which SMDO algorithm can', 'be tested over different benchmark functions according to different distribution functions.', '(https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/75044-smdo-with-distribution-function-forbenchmarking)	SMDO, optimization, stochastic, benchmark functions, distribution functions
389	Password-Based SIMSec Protocol	The purpose of the SIMSec protocol is to provide the infrastructure to enable secured access between the SIM (Subscriber Identity Module) card which doesn’t have an ephemeral key installed during production and the service provider. This infrastructure has a form based on agreements among the mobile network manufacturer, the user, the service provider and the card manufacturer. In order to secure transactions, authentication methods are used based on the fact that both parties can verify that they are the parties they claim to be. In this study, the key exchange and authentication models in the literature have been surveyed and the password-based authentication model is chosen. For the SIMSec protocol, the password-based authentication algorithm is integrated into the SIMSec protocol. Thanks to the proposed new structure, phase differences in the SIMSec protocol are shown. As a result, a new key exchange protocol is proposed for SIM cards.	Authentication, Key, Exchange, SIMSec
391	Wear Resistances of X6Cr17 Ferritic Stainless Steel Surfaces Coated with Al2O3 Powders Using Thermal Spray Method	The aim of this study was to improve the surface properties of the X6Cr17 ferritic stainless steels by coating with the Al2O3-TiO2 powders in the thickness of 0-100?m, 100-200?m and 200-300?m by using the plasma spray method, one of thermal spray methods. Wear resistance of the samples was investigated after the coating process. The tests were carried out by pin-on-disc method according to ASTM G133 standard. After examination of the results, it was observed highest abrasion resistance of A3 sample. It was concluded that the abrasion resistance in the high hardness sample does not mean that it will be good due to the high hardness.	X6Cr17, Al2O3, TiO2, Thermal spray coating, Wear resistance
392	A Comprehensive Performance Comparison of Dedicated and Embedded GPU Systems	General purpose usage of graphics processing units (GPGPU) is becoming increasingly important as GPUs get more powerful and their widespread usage in performance-oriented computing. GPGPUs are mainstream performance hardware in workstation and cluster environments and their behavior in such setups are highly analyzed. Recently, NVIDIA, the leader hardware and software vendor in GPGPU computing, started to produce more energy efficient embedded GPGPU systems, Jetson series GPUs, to make GPGPU computing more applicable in domains where energy and space are limited. Although, the architecture of the GPUs in Jetson systems is the same as the traditional dedicated desktop graphic cards, the interaction between the GPU and the other components of the system such as main memory, CPU, and hard disk, is a lot different than traditional desktop solutions. To fully understand the capabilities of the Jetson series embedded solutions, in this paper we run several applications from many different domains and compare the performance characteristics of these applications on both embedded and dedicated desktop GPUs. After analyzing the collected data, we have identified certain application domains and program behaviors that Jetson series can deliver performance comparable to dedicated GPU performance.	NVIDIA Jetson, Embedded GPGPU, CUDA
393	Influence of ER 316 L Filler Metal to Microstructure and Mechanical Properties of Hastelloy C276/UNS 32205 Dissimilar Welds	In this study, the dissimilar combinations of Hastelloy C-276 nickel-based super alloy and UNS 32205 duplex stainless steel are welded using MAG (metal active gas) method and ER 316L filler metal. The chemical properties of the filler metal are different from the mechanical and chemical properties of both base materials. The general microstructure of the weldment was examined with an optical microscope. The elemental characterization of the transition region between the base metal, weld metal and the fusion line is performed by using elemental mapping and by explaining the elemental mapping in this region with dilution. High toughness results had been obtained because of the nickel content of the filler metal.	Ni alloy, Duplex stainless steel, Welding metallurgy, Mechanical properties, Microstructural characterization
394	True Variable-Depth Milling of Nickel-Based Alloy IN-718	Rapid tool wear in machining causes increased process cost. While flank wear and crater wear have been investigated deeply by researchers, notch wear has been somewhat overlooked, despite the fact that it has an important role in the tool replacement decision. Notch wear happens due to impact forces at the depth of cut particularly during intermittent cutting. To avoid frequent tool change decisions, varying the depth of cut constantly during machining has been proposed as an alternative. In this study, milling experiments were conducted on the nickel-based alloy IN-718 where the depth of cut was varied throughout the cut. Results show favorable findings towards eliminating notch wear without compromising from machining efficiency.	Milling, Variable depth milling, Tool wear, Nickel-based alloy, Notch wear
395	A Comparative Study of the Total Phenolic, Total Antioxidant, and Ascorbic Acid Contents of the Cistus criticus, Fermented Rooibos, and Green Tea Infusions	Plants and herbs have been used as a traditional medicine due to their phytochemical contents since ancient times. Most plants are known for their various physiological advantages thanks to their bioactive compounds. These plant-sourced herbs are mostly consumed as tea infusions. Noteworthy, tea is the second most consumed beverage throughout the world. Due to the natural bioactive content of the tea beverages they are considered as functional foods. Functional foods either prevent or avoid the progression of diseases and they are mainly rich in antioxidants and polyphenols. Functionalized food consumption has increasing trend not only due to disease prevention/delaying but also due to other health and well-being concepts. This study was motivated with the aim of comparing the brewing technique (hot and cold) for the total phenolic content, antioxidant activity and ascorbic acid levels of the Cistus criticus, fermented rooibos, and green tea infusions. Results obtained from this investigation will illustrate a comparative image between the selected tea infusios of hot and cold brews. Findings of this research Results suggested suggests that hot brewing is more efficient in terms of for total phenolic content while the opposite for the total antioxidant activity (P <0.05). On the other hand, comparison between the three selected herbal tea samples, Also, Cistus criticus infusions showed the highest content of total phenolic compounds, while green tea demonstrated the highest antioxidant activity for hot and cold infusions. Ascorbic acid levels of these 3 herbal tea samples did not show any significant difference (P >0.05). Noteworthy, this study cannot suggest any correlation between the total phenolic content and total antioxidant activities for the water extracted hot and cold infusions of Cistus criticus, fermented rooibos, and green tea samples.	rooibos tea, green tea, total phenolic, cistus, Cistus criticus, antioxidant, DPPH
403	Parameter Estimation System for Photovoltaic Panels	When modeling photovoltaic (PV) systems, accuracy of panel parameters is of great importance. In this study, a system which aims to determine the parameters of PV panels by experimental way has been developed. The characteristic curves of the FV panels are sampled with the proposed system and transferred to the developed MATLAB software. In the MATLAB software, Newton Raphson, Secant, Bisection and Regula Falsi methods are applied for parameter determination. It has been observed that Secant method is the fastest method, besides all root detection methods used to determine parameters with high success.	Photovoltaic panel, I/V curve, Parameter estimation
404	3D Ore Modeling of Horzum (Feke/Adana) Zinc-Lead Mineralization	"Horzum lead Zinc deposits are located between Kozan-Feke districts. Mineralization continues for about 20 km in N-S direction. Lead zinc mineralization is within the light colored limestones belonging to middle Cambrian aged Çaltepe formation consisting of crystallized limestones, dolomite and dolomitic limestones, and the general elongation of the mineralization is observed in NE-SW direction and inclination to SE. Mineralization is located within the light colored limestones of the medium Cambrian aged Çaltepe formation consisting of crystallized limestones, dolomite and dolomititic limestones. Primary sulphide minerals in mineralization; galenite, sphalerite, pyrite and few photographs are chalcopyrite. In the oxidized ore zone, hydrozinkite, simitsonite, goethite, limonite and fewer serusite minerals have developed. In the calculations made with the block model method, 108000 tons of reserve was determined in 5% higher grade in Horzum Lead - Zinc bed."	Horzum, Lead, Zinc, Reserve, Mineralization
405	Investigation of Alternative Material and Design of Rotary Kiln: A Case Study	Rotary kilns have widespread usage in many field of industry due to continues flow and heating the products inside it, simultaneously. Rotary kiln can be used in the process of alumina, cement, lime, magnesium etc. Rotary kiln material for corrosive process media is usually designated as stainless steel. In some media as high temperature and dilute acidic, even stainless steel can be subject to rapid corrosion. In this study, an alternative material, titanium Gr 2, was investigated instead of conventional 316L (1.4404) quality stainless steel material of rotary kiln. Due to the different physical properties of titanium Gr 2 material, two different alternative designs were prepared and analyzed with the model. In the first design the outside of the titanium shell of the rotary kiln was covered with 316L (1.4404) quality steel material. In this design, different thermal expansion of the materials limited the usage of hybrid materials at high temperature. Therefore, as a second alternative the length of the rotary kiln was extended. According to required product output temperature the required of the length extension was calculated as 4600 mm.	Rotary kiln, Titanium, Heat transfer, Thermal expansion
406	Effect of BN Addition on the Mechanical Properties of B4C/Al Hybrid Composites Produced via Squeeze Casting Method	In this study, effects of boron nitride (BN) addition on the mechanical properties of boron carbide reinforced (B4C) aluminum (Al) composites were investigated. 3, 5 and 10 wt. %BN were added to Al matrix composites reinforced with 5% B4C and melts were cast by squeeze casting technique under 75 MPa casting pressure to produce BN-B4C/Al hybrid composites. Control samples were prepared without any BN and B4C addition for comparison purposes and effect of BN and B4C addition on the density and chip lengths of the produced materials were obtained. In order to determine the effect of BN addition on the mechanical properties hardness measurements were conducted and the yield and ultimate tensile strengths and per cent elongation values were determined by tensile testing and results were compared.	Aluminum, Boron nitride, Boron carbide, Squeeze casting, Mechanical properties
410	Potential of Solar Energy from Renewable Energy Sources in Amasya	Today, rising living standards and increasing population with technological and economic developments have led to an increase in energy needs. The fact that conventional fossil fuels will run out in the near future increases the need for clean and renewable energy sources day by day. Solar energy is seen as an alternative to fossil energy sources that are running out because they are cheap, clean, have high potential, and have little harm to the environment. Turkey, in terms of the potential of solar energy is geographically situated in a good location. The evaluation of this potential that Turkey has great importance. In this study, the potential of solar energy, which is among the renewable energy sources of the province of Amasya, was investigated. Amasya province in the Black Sea region of Turkey with its geographical location, is one of the highest solar provinces.	Solar Energy, Energy Potential, Renewable Energy, Amasya
414	Review of the Methods Used for the Detection of Spam Email	In this study, the methods in the literature for filtering spam emails were reviewed. Emails are actively used by people or communities who want to make propaganda, advertising, phishing because of their ease of use and low cost. People or communities who want to achieve their goals send unnecessary and unsolicited mail to the email accounts they never knew. These mails cause serious financial and moral damages to internet users and also engage in internet traffic. Unsolicited emails are a method that is sent to the recipient without his consent and that is generally used by malicious or promotional purposes. In this article, important developments in spam filtering methods are evaluated and deficiencies are revealed. The filtering of spam emails has been reviewed under two main headings: non-artificial intelligence-based and artificial intelligence-based. It has been observed that non-artificial intelligence-based methods give effective results in detecting spam, but there is spam that can easily skip these methods. It has been revealed that systems based on artificial intelligence are frequently used in spam detection and research and development are in this direction. In recent years, with the development of artificial intelligence, machine learning and algorithms emerging in its deep learning field, which is a sub-branch of it, have been detected with high performance and spam email detection. Due to the high performance of machine learning and deep learning methods for filtering spam emails, studies in this field are concentrated in detecting and filtering spam email.	spam email detection, artificial intelligence, machine learning
416	Determination of High Efficiency Standard Cyclone Performance Using Numerical Methods	The cyclones, one of the dust collection devices, are used to separate the particles or liquid from the carrier gas by centrifugal forces. They have been widely applied in gas-solid separation for an industrial air cleaning process. In addition to being economical, their simplicity of constructions, lack of moving parts, and adaptation to high pressure and temperature conditions make these devices durable and efficient. On the other hand, in the operation of cyclones, the effects of particle, carrier gas, cyclone dimensions, and other factors are very important operational requirements in determining the cyclone performance. In the cyclone design, the terms of pressure drop, and cut-off diameter determine the cyclone performance. In addition, cyclone geometry plays an important role on changes in pressure drop and cut-off diameter values. In this study, high efficiency standard cyclone geometric structure is studied, and this structure is modelled using Solidworks program. Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) was used to determine of cyclone separation performance. In the scope of the study, flow analysis is performed, and cut-off diameters are tried to be determined by using statistical learning methods from the results of the analysis.	High-efficiency cyclone, Flow simulation, Cut-off diameter, Pressure drops, Particulate matter
417	Exergoeconomic Evaluation of Energy and Exergy Analysis in a Central Heating System	In this study, the economical and exergoeconomik analysis of the central heating system which produces a total of 20 tons/hour of steam was conducted in in the Van Yüzüncü Yıl University campus. As a result of the analysis, the total energy efficiency of the boilers, which is the most important part of the system, was found to be 90% and the exergy efficiency as 31%. The exergetic efficiency of the whole system was found to be 29%. As a result of the exergoeconomic analysis, the annual fuel consumption cost of the system, the annual product cost price, the unit exergy cost of the parameters entering and leaving the system were calculated. As a result of the calculations, the hourly cost of the product was found to be: 291.78 $/h, the hourly cost of fuel: 252.30 $/h.	Energy, Exergy, Exergoeconomic
418	Obtaining Live Load Distribution Factors Equations for Simply Supported Bridges Using Neural Networks	Advancements in artificial intelligence have caused important transformations in many areas. Research on applications of artificial intelligence, machine-learning and neural networks in civil engineering has been growing recently. Parallel to this progress, in this study, closed-form formulas for distribution of live load among the bridge girders are obtained using artificial neural networks. In these formulas, the number of girders is also incorporated as a new parameter, which is not included in AASHTO LRFD live load distribution equations. For this purpose, numerous straight, simply supported bridge models are analyzed using the finite element method and subsequently live load distribution factors are calculated. Live load distribution factors obtained through neural networks are compared with those from finite element analyses and AASHTO LRFD formulas. These comparisons reveal that closed-form formulas can predict live load distribution factors accurately.	Artificial intelligence, Neural networks, Bridges, Live load, Load distribution
419	Matrix Encryption Standard	AES (Advanced Encryption Standard) is a standard for encrypting electronic data. AES operates on a column-major order array of bytes. The operations in the matrix are also performed on the polynomials in a special finite field and using S-box. We firstly recall necessary information about matrix algebra. In the present work, we examine the AES encryption method. We create a new encryption algorithm called matrix encryption standard (MES). MES is performed by similar steps to the AES algorithm over 16x16 matrices with elements {0,1} without using polynomials operations and S-box in the AES algorithm. So, we provide 256-bits plain text to be encrypted by passing it through certain rounds with the 16x16 matrix key. In order to decrypt the cipher text, we take the reverse of the 16x16 key matrix through the computer and perform the decryption process by performing a certain number of reverse rounds.	Cryptology, Encryption, AES, Matrix
431	Operational Modal Analysis Application on a Single Storey Reinforced Concrete Building	"Determination of the mechanical properties of materials by non-destructive methods is quite common practice. The studies conducted in the field of determining the dynamic behavior parameters of the structures are also included in non-destructive methods. Operational modal analysis, a non-destructive method, is presented as main element of this study. A single storey reinforced concrete structure with the lack of static and architectural projects was studied. First of all, the structure was relieved, reinforcement details of load bearing elements were determined by reinforcement detection device, and the properties of the concrete material were determined in-situ by ultrasonic testing and Schmidt hammer applications. Secondly, finite element model was created by using SAP2000 software and theoretical modal analysis was performed. In the third stage, operational modal analysis was performed. Considering the results of theoretical modal analysis; accelerometer sensor instrumentation was made and ambient vibration recordings were taken. The collected data was processed by using Artemis Modal Pro software and in-situ mode shapes and frequencies were obtained. The theoretical and experimental mode shapes were defined to be similar; whereas the related frequency values were obtained to be different. As a result of the calibration studies on the finite element model, it was concluded that it was not possible to calculate the experimentally obtained modal behavior parameters if the fill walls were omitted in the finite element model."	Operational modal analysis, theoretical modal analysis, non-destructive testing, ultrasound testing, structural model calibration
436	The Effect of Sub and Supercritical Fluids in Determination Chemical Composition and Antioxidant Capacity of Artemissia annua L.	In this study, the effects of sub and supercritical fluid extraction methods on the chemical composition and antioxidant activity of annual wormwood (Artemisia annua L.) which is important medicinal aromatic plants were investigated. The applied sub/supercritical fluid extractions were subcritical water, subcritical ethanol and supercritical CO2. The efficiency of these methods has been compared by using steam distillation, refluxing and organic solvent extraction in an ultrasonic bath. Free radical scavenging method (DPPH), total antioxidant capacity (CUPRAC) and total phenol content (FOLIN) methods were conducted to determine the antioxidant activities of the extracts. The results revealed that the components and concentrations in the extracts varied according to the extraction method. Taking advantage of this difference, the extraction method suitable for the purpose of use of the extract can be selected. Economically important oxygenated components were mostly obtained by subcritical water extraction. It was determined that the most effective method in antioxidant activity determination studies was subcritical ethyl alcohol extraction. It is thought that the results obtained will make an important contribution to the pharmacology, food and nutraceuticals industries.	Sub and Supercritical Fluids, Artemisia annua L, Antioxidant activity
437	Numerical Analysis of New Type Composite Insulation Materials for Cooling Panels	"Energy saving is an important problem area in heating and cooling systems. Reducing heat loss from cooling panels is crucial for reducing operating cost, increasing system efficiency and energy saving. For his reason in this paper, the thermal performance of new type of insulation materials for an industry cold storage is numerically investigated for different configurations. Two different solution methods are used. For the first method, insulation materials are used in layers in three different configurations. For the second method, thermal performance of PU based homogeneous composite insulation materials is numerically investigated. Ansys Fluent 19.3 CFD program is used for numerical analysis. As a result; using Magpan-PU composite insulation material (configuration-2) causes a reduction of 9.3% on heat loss according to the reference PU foam (configuration -1). For comparing PU based homogeneous composite insulation materials, using 5% doped silica aerogel PU causes an increase of 19.9% on the thermal performance of insulation material and using 1% doped nano-clay PU causes a decrease of 9.8% on the thermal performance of insulation material. It is determined that model results can represent the physical process and can be used for modeling different type of insulation materials for different parameters."	Energy saving, Insulation material, Composite structure, Numerical modelling
438	Experimental Evaluation of Cooling Modules with High Heat Transfer Capacity for Illumination Armatures and Innovative Product Design	Energy has become one of the most important subjects of our age. Efficient use of energy is vital for both the governments and the companies. LED technology is known as the most efficient device among lighting devices. The cooling of the LED illuminators is crucial for their lifetime and performance. In this study, alternative solutions that have a lighter and modular structure than aluminum blocks, with a high heat transfer capacity for illumination armatures, have been evaluated and an innovative design has been developed. Temperature tests were performed on the cooling module produced as a prototype and its suitability for street lighting use was examined. As a result of the tests, it was observed that the warming problem was largely solved. Since no extra fan power is needed to cool the luminaire in the module, it is seen that heat transfer is provided without extra energy.	Energy, Illumination, LED, Heat transfer, Cooling
439	Investigation of Spontaneous Combustion Tendency of Çan Lignites	"In this study, the spontaneous combustion characteristics of coal samples obtained from Çan Lignite Corporation’s (ÇLC) open pit and stockpiles were determined by the crossing point temperature method. Accordingly, it was determined in the experiments that the average heating rates (AHR) of coals ranged from 0.92 to 3.93 °C min–1; ignition or crossing point temperatures (CPT) from 150 to 182 °C and susceptibility index (IFCC) from 5.04 to 33.33 min-1. As a result, the liability of 21 coal samples to spontaneous combustion tendency was determined to be in the “medium-high” risk category."	Çan Lignite Corporation, Crossing point temperature method, Spontaneous combustion of coal, Lignite
440	Performance Evaluation of Various Regression Models and Features for Prediction of Ozone Concentration	Air pollution caused by ozone is a problem which threaten human health. Therefore, prediction of O3 concentration is important. In this work, O3 concentration level for Adana, Turkey is predicted with support vector regression (SVR), multi-layer perceptron (MLP), gradient boosting decision trees (GBDT), K nearest neighbors (KNN), elastic net machine learning methods. Parameters utilized for this prediction are hourly measurement of pollutants like particular matter (PM10), sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), nitric oxide (NO) concentrations and also meteorological parameters like air temperature, wind speed, relative humidity, air pressure, wind direction. Additionally, hour, day and season information are used as features. It has been shown that SVR method achieves the best result with R2 value of 0.9697. Furthermore, backward elimination method is implemented for feature selection process and according to the results, current O3 concentration has the highest importance to predict the concentration for the next hour.	Air quality, Ozone concentration, Machine learning, Regression
441	Using Solar Thermal Energy in Industrial Applications	Industrial productivity and competitiveness can increase with decreasing dependency on fossil fuels by using solar energy in the industry. Using TES together with solar energy is needed for cost-effective solar heat industrial applications. TES systems that are used in industrial solar applications can increase the energy efficiency in industry. Performance of thermal energy storage systems mainly depends on type of TES technology, industrial process and temperature levels of processes. This study is focused on solar heat industrial processes and TES systems. Suitable industrial processes for solar and TES systems, solar energy technologies and sustainability of TES were investigated. Integration of solar energy and TES system were analyzed in a milk pasteurization process as a case study. Energy efficiency of 52,5 % was achieved by integration of TES system filled with sensible thermal energy storage materials developed from demolition wastes.	Solar Energy, Industrial applications, Thermal energy storage (TES), Milk pasteurization
442	Effect of Glass Waste Sludge on the Freezing-Thawing Behavior of Clayey Soils	In recent years, since waste materials constitute a serious degree of hazard to the eco-system, several sectors have started to question the usability of these materials in different fields. In this regard, researchers have pointed out by means of the performed studies that wastes can also be utilized in soil improvement applications. Glass waste sludge (GWS) is a waste generated during the processing of the raw material used for glass production. This waste accumulates in serious amounts in nature. Studies on the use of this waste are very limited in the literature. In this study, the effect of glass waste sludge (GWS) and cement (CMT) on the strength and consolidation parameters of a clay soil was investigated under freeze-thaw behavior. Under the effect of freezing-thawing, with the addition of GWS, the clay soil became more stable, strength parameters increased and consolidation behavior improved. In addition, these improvements have been found to be further enhanced by the addition of cement.	Soil improvement, Glass waste sludge, Freezing-thawing, Unconfined compressive strength, Consolidation
443	Investigation on SCR Activity of Ag-Pt-W/TiO2 Catalyst	In this study, the effect of catalyst containing silver (Ag)-platinum (Pt)-tungsten (W) on the selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of nitrogen oxides (NOx) was investigated. Cordierite was used as catalyst support material and catalyst production was carried out by impregnation method. Before coating, the cordierite material was pre-treated with 40% oxalic acid solution and made ready for coating by increasing the surface area. After coating, the catalyst was characterized by BET analysis. When the surface area of not pre-treated cordierite and synthesized catalyst was compared, it was found that the surface area of the catalyst was approximately 60.76 times higher. The activity of the Ag-Pt-W/TiO2 catalyst within the temperature range of 200 to 270 °C, at three different space velocities (40000 h-1, 50000 h-1, 60000 h-1) and four different engine loads (1 kW, 2 kW, 3 kW 4 kW) has been investigated. It was found that the catalytic activity increased with the increase in temperature but decreased with the increase in the engine load. The highest NOx conversion ratio of the catalyst was found to be 86.1%, which was achieved at 40000 h-1 space velocity, 270 °C temperature and 4 kW engine load.	Ethanol, Catalyst, NOx, SCR
444	Investigating the Interfacial Strength of Titanium and Fiber/Epoxy for The Alternative FML Composites	Fiber-reinforced polymer composites provide high strength to weight ratio, resist to environmental effects, but they have poor impact strength due to brittleness. Therefore, researchers have developed fiber metal laminates (FMLs) particularly for aerospace, aviation and defence industries. FML composites combine the advantages of both metal alloys and fibers but eliminate their drawbacks. However, the bonding strength of fiber-metal interface plays an important role for effectiveness of FML composites. In this study, the interfacial strength values of TiGr2 series titanium sheets and ± 45º oriented fiber/epoxy composites (glass and carbon) were investigated by applying single lap shear tests based on ASTM D 5868. Epoxy based adhesive was used as a matrix during manufacturing for joining titanium sheets to composite laminates.	Fiber metal laminated composite (FML), Titanium, Single lap shear test, Interfacial strength
446	Performance Analysis of Multiobjective Golden Sine Algorithm with Chaotic Map	Multiobjective optimization is the process of producing solutions suitable for limited or unconstrained problems with more than one purpose. In intuitive multi-objective optimization, the randomly generated number string is of great importance in obtaining solutions close to the global optimum. Collecting the randomly generated number string in a certain area increases the risk of diverging from the global optimum. Therefore, the numbers produced are not the same and have a spread spectrum affects the performance of heuristic optimization algorithms. Chaotic maps are discrete time systems and the numbers produced with chaotic maps have a wide spectrum and are not periodic. Due to the nature of chaos-based optimization algorithms, it has become a subject to be examined in the solution of optimization problems due to factors such as being able to escape local minimums and being fast and flexible. Therefore, in intuitive multi-purpose optimization algorithms, it is aimed to reduce the risk of getting stuck in the local optimum by using chaotic map. In this study, the effects of chaotic maps on the new and successful Multiobjective Golden Sine Algorithm (MOGoldSA) were investigated.	Chaotic map, Multiobjective optimization, heuristic methods
457	Performance Comparisons of Current Binary Optimization Algorithms in Unconstrained Benchmark Functions	Multiobjective optimization is the process of producing solutions suitable for limited or unconstrained problems with more than one purpose. In intuitive multi-objective optimization, the randomly generated number string is of great importance in obtaining solutions close to the global optimum. Collecting the randomly generated number string in a certain area increases the risk of diverging from the global optimum. Therefore, the numbers produced are not the same and have a spread spectrum affects the performance of heuristic optimization algorithms. Chaotic maps are discrete time systems and the numbers produced with chaotic maps have a wide spectrum and are not periodic. Due to the nature of chaos-based optimization algorithms, it has become a subject to be examined in the solution of optimization problems due to factors such as being able to escape local minimums and being fast and flexible. Therefore, in intuitive multi-purpose optimization algorithms, it is aimed to reduce the risk of getting stuck in the local optimum by using chaotic map. In this study, the effects of chaotic maps on the new and successful Multiobjective Golden Sine Algorithm (MOGoldSA) were investigated.	Binary optimization, unconstrained benchmark functions, modification techniques, performance evaluation
464	Comprehensive analysis of OSH practices from perspectives of Turkish construction stakeholders	"Theoretical improvements related to occupational safety and health (OSH) concept is observed in Turkey as a developing country in recent years. However, fatal occupational accidents are increasing in the Turkish construction sector as well as the other industries. Correspondingly this study purposes to investigate the evolution of the OSH practices from different viewpoints by stakeholders in the Turkish construction sector. A survey study was conducted to a total of 400 respondents as; chief technical officers (CTOs), employers, OSH experts, site guards and workers. The survey study consists of five sections, including; (1) demographic properties of the participants, (2) safety equipment and occupational accidents, (3) employee health, education and awareness, (4) OSH practices, and (5) working conditions of the construction sector, environmental conscience and sustainability. The results indicate that despite the conceptual improvement, there are serious perceptual differences among stakeholders; particularly between the OSH experts and the CTOs/workers. The education level is also observed as a non-determinant factor in terms of safety equipment used in the Turkish construction sector."	Construction sector, Evolution, OSH, Stakeholders, Turkey, Worksite
465	Ergonomic Development of Tractor Technolift Clamp	In this study, a new technolift lever mechanism has been designed as an alternative in order to provide ergonomics to the existing technolift clamp mechanisms used in tractors and to reduce the load applied to the mechanism. In this context, a new technolift latch mechanism has been designed considering the ergonomically holding types. This design is produced by rapid prototyping method and ergonomic design is controlled on the tractor. On the other hand, the loads on the new mechanism mounted on the vehicle were measured with the load cell and compared with the theoretical calculation result. As a result of the measurements, it was seen that experimental and theoretical results were close to each other. On the other hand, the load values indicate that this new design will operate with a 58-72% less load. This shows that the user at the head of the tractor will consume less force. However, since the developed alternative arm design will be pushed with arm / shoulder support, it is considered that it will not cause any physical problems in long-term use and will contribute to the productivity positively.	tractor, technolift, hydraulic lift, ergonomics
467	Comparative Analysis of Recreational Trends of University Students: The Case of Çankırı	"Recreational areas in the cities, have important functions about supplying the psychological, physical and social needs of people, as well as re-establishing their relationships with nature in a concrete urban environment. In this research, some demographic characteristics of the students studying at Çankırı Karatekin University and the usage characteristics of all recreational areas of Çankırı city were analyzed. Within this scope, a survey study was conducted on 96 students. Descriptive statistics and frequency tables were used in the analysis of the obtained variables; Spearman’s Correlation Analysis and Chi Square Test were used in determining the relationships between the variables. According to the results; it was found that low-income students had difficulty in participating recreational activities in terms of accessibility to the areas and duration of activity compared to high-income students, whereas high-income students were selective towards recreational areas. The results generally showed that; although the students did not find an adequate level for the recreation areas (%52) and accessibility of these areas (%76); the recreation areas met their requirements and they were moderately (%50) satisfied with the areas. Through this study, suggestions were made to guide for the recreational applications at the urban scale as well as actions for the university campus in future."	Recreational trend, recreation, demand, çankırı
471	INVESTIGATION OF BLAST FRAGMENTATION MODELS IN A SANDSTONE QUARRY	The existing blast fragmentation models were investigated in a sandstone quarry for bench blasting operations. It was tried to present different perspectives for evaluation of blast fragmentation. Size distribution curves were created for each blast. KuzRam model provided successful results. Kuznetsov-Cunningham-Ouchterlony (KCO) model was useful especially for the fine size predictions. Capability of the models for fine, mean and coarse size predictions were evaluated in detail. Uniformity coefficients proposed by the models were examined. Chung & Katsabanis model was practically tested and a modification implemented for the studied quarry. Model validation was performed using ten different error metrics. Applicability of symmetric errors and scaled errors was investigated for evaluation of blast fragmentation. KuzRam model predicted mean fragment size with an error lower than three centimeters. The results of the modified Chung & Katsabanis model is quite promise.	Aggregate quarry, Rock blasting, Fragmentation, Size distribution, Error metrics.
473	Estimation of future climate temperature in Turkey using the ARIMA model	In recent years, global climate temperature change has been one of the most important problems of the world. Almost all countries are trying to take many prevent regarding global climate temperature change. In this study, monthly temperature data between February 1777 and September 2013 years are taken from the open-access website (Kaggle). The ARIMA model data set has been examined for its stability. Parameters of the ARIMA model are optimized by using grid search and Akaike information criterion. The training was carried out on the ARIMA model using the optimized parameters. The obtained ARIMA model has two prediction methods, static and dynamic. According to Coefficent of Determination (R2) performance evaluation criterion of the ARIMA model, 96,68% accuracy in the dynamic evaluation, and 97,19% accuracy in the static evaluation were obtained.	ARIMA, Time series, Climate temperature change
477	INVESTIGATION OF RISK POTENTIALS IN OPERATING ROOMS FOR WORK SAFETY AND THE IMPACT OF LIGHTING CONDITIONS ON THE VISUAL ATTENTION OF THE EMPLOYEES	"Aim: Occupational health, ensuring that employees are physically, socially and mentally healthy; making both working conditions and tools more suitable for human health; It covers all work done to protect employees from harmful effects from the workplace and to ensure harmonious work among employees. Protecting employees against potential risks in all workplaces is a basic approach. Operating rooms are also working areas where there are certain risks for employees. This risk is higher for anesthesiologists working in operating rooms for longer periods and shifts. In this study, it was aimed to determine the effect of lighting conditions in the operating room on the visual and sustainable attention level of the employees. Material and Method: Within the scope of the application, a working group consisting of 38 men and 27 women, who were between 20 and 47 years of age, who did not have any health problems in periodic health examinations, was formed. Each person in the study group was subjected to a 25-question visual attention test at 1000, 500, 250, 100 and 50 lux levels at different times, respectively, and the number of correct and incorrect answers given by each participant in each lighting condition was obtained. In addition, each person in the study group was exposed to 100 lux for an 8-hour period, and during this process, a visual attention test was performed at the end of the 1st, 2nd, 4th and 8th hours, and the results were recorded. The analyzes were carried out using the IBM SPSS Statistics 25.0 program. Results: While a significance was observed for the negative effect of age increase in relation to the level of illumination on visual attention, no significance was found for the gender factor. While the negative effect of illumination level on visual attention was significant at levels of 250 lux and below, it was not detected at 500 and 1000 lux levels. In each slice of exposure examined, a meaningfulness is observed in the name of its negative effect on visual attention. Conclusion: The level of visual attention has a direct relationship with the success of the work. The negative effect of illumination level on visual attention at 250 lux and below was found significant and this significance became more certain as the exposure time increased. The attention level of those who are in the operating room environment, especially the anesthesia team, may affect the work accidents and complications that may develop in the operating room."	Anesthesia, Lighting, Attention level, Occupational accident, Occupational health, Operating Room, Visual attention
481	An Application of Value Engineering: Meatball Making Machine Design	"In our world, which has become a global village with the development of technology, the number and variety of products and services have increased and access to these products has become extremely easy. As a result, companies have started to pay more attention to reducing costs in order to maintain and increase their competitive powers. Decisions made at the product design stage directly affect the cost of the product. Therefore, it is a rational solution to include cost studies in the design process. The target costing system accepts the design process as part of the cost. Thus; in this study, target costing system was used in design of a meatball making machine. Target sales price, profit rate and target cost were determined by considering customer expectations and market conditions. Value engineering techniques were applied to provide desired product functions and to achieve cost targets."	Target cost, Value engineering, Meatball machine design
483	Quality Losses in Yoghurt Production and Development of Corrective Measures for Quality Improvement	"Yoghurt is an important dairy product that is consumed abundantly with its high nutritional values and health benefits. There are many production parameters that affect the quality of yoghurt until it is presented to the end-user from the production. In order to produce high quality yoghurt, milks obtained after milking must pass certain stages. The production stages and conditions of yoghurt affect the desired quality features such as taste, texture texture, color, consistency. Each stage has different effects on the product that will occur as a result of production. In this study, the processing stages of yoghurt, which has a very important place with its nutritional value and taste, thew hole production process were examined; in this context, quality losses that may occur both theoretically and application-oriented for each production parameter and stage are explained and the preventıons that can be taken to reduce quality losses are specified. With this study, the preventıons that are thought to in crease the yoghurt quality and productivity in the production stages is shared."	Yoghurt, Dairy Products, Production Stages of Yoghurt, Yoghurt Quailty
486	PREDICTION OF GROSS CALORIFIC VALUE OF COAL FROM PROXIMATE AND ULTIMATE ANALYSIS VARIABLES USING SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINES WITH FEATURE SELECTION	The gross calorific value (GCV) is an essential thermal property of coal which indicates the amount of heat energy that could be released by burning a specific quantity. The primary objective of the presented study is to develop new GCV prediction models using support vector machines (SVMs) combined with feature selection algorithm. For this purpose, the feature selector RReliefF is applied to the dataset consisting of proximate and ultimate analysis variables to determine the importance of each predictor of GCV. In this way, seven different hybrid input sets (data models) were constructed. The prediction performance of models was computed by using the square of multiple correlation coefficient (R', '2', '), root mean square error (RMSE), and mean absolute percentage error (MAPE). Considering all the results obtained from this study, the predictor variables moisture (M) and ash (A) obtained from the proximate analysis and carbon (C), hydrogen (H) and sulfur (S) obtained from the ultimate analysis were found to be the most relevant variables in predicting GCV of coal, while the predictor variables volatile matter from the proximate analysis and nitrogen from the ultimate analysis did not have a positive effect on the prediction accuracy. The SVM-based model using the predictor variables M, A, C, H, and S yielded the highest R', '2', ' and the lowest RMSE and MAPE with 0.998, 0.22 MJ/kg, and 0.66%, respectively. For comparison purposes, multilayer perceptron and radial basis function network were also used to predict GCV.	Gross calorific value of coal, feature selection, support vector machines, artificial neural network
487	AUTOMATIC CONTROL OF WHEEL SLIP IN SOIL TILLAGE	In this study, a control system that automatically adjusts the working depth of the tractor tillage equipment has been developed in order to keep the wheel slip occurring in agricultural tractors during the tillage activities at the determined limit value. The developed automatic control system continuously measured the wheel slip on the tractor drive wheels and reduced the tillage depth adjusted for the wheel slip increase. While the amount of wheel sip was at the allowed level, the tillage equipment worked at the set depth value. In the study, a driver warning system is also designed to alert the driver to reduce the tillage depth when the amount of wheel slip exceeds the specified limit value. The driver warning system warns the driver visually with the help of colored LEDs and audibly with a buzzer according to the measured wheel slip value. The developed automatic control system was compared separately with the designed driver warning system and the operator's own control. The wheel slip value was calculated by comparing the forward speed of the tractor with the speed of the drive wheels. The automatic control system and driver warning system were installed on a New Holland TD110 agricultural tractor and trials were carried out in real field conditions. As a result of the trials, according to the driver warning system and operator control, it was determined that there was a 3-29% reduction in wheel slip and a 22-30% reduction in fuel consumption in soil tillage activities carried out with automatic control system. On the other hand, the draft force decreased by more than 5% compared to the operator control in the automatic control system. However, it was observed that there was almost no change in the average tillage depth between the control methods.	Agricultural tractors, Automatic control systems, Fuel efficiency, Plowing depth, wheel slip
488	SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION OF COAL AND RISK ANALYSIS IN ILGIN OPENCAST MINING	"Coal is a strategic energy source for all countries, partly due to the regular distribution of reserves in the earth. But; although it is widely believed that alternative energy sources will replace coal due to environmental concerns, world energy policies reveal the importance of coal use share (27.1%) by 2040. For this reason, the spontaneous combustion of coal will continue to be an important problem in the future as it was in the past and today. Spontaneous combustion and open pit fires also appear as an important problem in Ilgın lignite plant, and sometimes there are large reserves and economic losses as a result of the combustion of coals withdrawn to stock. Based on spontaneous combustion in 5 different samples taken from the production point in Ilgın lignite mines; intersection tests did not show too much variability and ignition temperature (crossing-point temperature-CPT) is typically varied between 195-234 °C. Laboratory experiments have been identified that fire coal susceptibility index ranged between 2.73 to 3.73, and the risk index of is ""low and medium"". Also; thermos-gravimetric (TG) / differential thermal analysis (DTA) of the received coal samples are based on the results of experiments it has been determined the activity to the spontaneous combustion of Ilgın lignite’s. In this study, spontaneous combustion mechanism of coal, factors affecting combustion and findings obtained by laboratory studies are presented."	Ilgın, Coal, Spontaneous combustion, Occupational health and safety
489	THE ERGONOMIC RISK ANALYSIS WITH REBA METHOD IN PRODUCTION LINE	Ergonomics is a group of multidisciplinary studies that investigate and improve the compatibility of humans with the machine and the environment by examining the physical, environmental and psychological risk factors. The primary purpose of ergonomics is to ensure employee health and safety, and increase work efficiency (such as reduced idle capacity, increased production, increased product quality). Because employing workers in a healthy and safe condition enables an increase in work efficiency. In this study, ergonomic risk analysis was selected on the production line of an enterprise with the REBA method and suggestions for improvement were included. The working cluster consists of 30 unskilled workers on the production line. As a result of the analysis, 66.6% of the production process is at medium risk and 33.4% is at high risk. After the improvement works to be done, it is expected that ergonomic risks would reduce and an increase in production and efficiency.	Ergonomics risk analysis, REBA, Assembly-Work, Musculoskeletal-Diseases, Work-related diseases
490	COMPARISON OF ISO 2631-1, ISO 2631-5, BS 6841 AND EU 2002/44/EC USED IN DETERMINING THE WHOLE-BODY VIBRATION EXPOSURE OF EMPLOYEES IN THE SITTING POSITION	"Vibration-induced machines are used in almost all industry branches. Employees using these machines experience health exposures by being affected by hand and arm vibration and the whole-body vibration as a result of vibration. Vibration, employees; it can affect physically and psychologically, cause occupational diseases, and may affect occupational health and safety by affecting their performance. Many vibration-related disorders such as hand-finger and elbow discomfort seen in users using vibratory vehicles and waist and back problems in those working on vibratory grounds are defined in the Diagnostic Guide of Occupational Diseases and Work-Related Diseases prepared by İSGİP. The best-known standards for measuring and evaluating human body exposure to vibration are BS 6841 (1987) and ISO 2631-1 (1997). ISO 2631 is preferred over BS 6841 as the EU Physical Agents (Vibration) Directive refers to it. International standards ISO 2631-1 and ISO 2631-5 examine whole body vibration and aim to demonstrate the importance of vibration in terms of ergonomics, comfort and health. In this study, national and international this standard used for evaluating the effect of vibration on human body in Turkey and in the world have been compared.', ' "	Whole body vibration, EU Directive 2002/44/EC, ISO 2631-1, ISO 2631-5, VDV(8), A(8)
491	"A GLANCE FROM URBAN OUTDOOR PLACES FROM THE FRAMEWORK OF ERGONOMIC STANDARDS; KONYA EXAMPLE"	"Among the urban outdoor spaces; It is an open and / or semi-open space that allows people to socialize and perform many activities such as gathering, resting and having fun. The fact that cities have changed or will be changed many times in parallel with the socio-cultural structure and user needs that have changed throughout history has made the change of these areas inevitable with the cities. These open or semi-open spaces and the equipment used in the areas, which have an impact on the identity of the city as well as the people, should be designed and applied in a way that is suitable for the users, and should be of innovation and quality that will contribute to the aesthetic value of the city. It is thought that these areas, which are formed by prioritizing user wishes and needs, continue to develop by being exposed to many variables from location selection to implementation. In the light of all these approaches, the evaluation of the parks, which are the urban outdoor spaces applied in the new generation, over the user, is considered and three urban parks implemented in the city of Konya have been selected. Among the three parks that have been operating in the city center in Konya in the near term and established within the framework of certain concepts; “Selçuklu Kanyon Park, Meram Millet Bahçesi and 80 Binde Devr-i Âlem Park” will be examined in detail. These selected parks are urban outdoor spaces with environmental impacts and large-scale open, semi-open and closed spaces. The design criteria of the parks, innovative approaches and the suitability of the facilities in the parks according to the ergonomic standards; the project will be examined in the light of visual-written information and observation, photographing and measurements made in the field."	Anthropometry, Ergonomics, Urban outdoor, Park, Design approach
493	Two New Methods Developed to Detect Railway Rail and Defects	Rail system vehicles are widely used today. The reason for this widespread use that is the safest passenger and freight transport vehicle. In order to maintain this reliability, railway rails should be checked frequently. With the help of these controls, unwanted accidents can be prevented by finding rail defects. Nowadays, checks on railway rails are carried out several times during the year.', 'This rail track control process is mostly observing by staff. This method is unreliable and can take a long time. As railways are used continuously, the inspection should be completed in a short time. While performing these checks, no damage should be made to the rail structure. Therefore, non-destructive methods are preferred. Computer aided visual inspection method is one of the non-destructive inspection methods. In this study, computer aided image processing algorithms are used on rail images taken by the camera to detect rail head and rail contact area. Originally developed Horizontal-Vertical and Horizontal-Horizontal image processing algorithms are applied on the rail images. According to the obtained results, it was observed that Horizontal-Vertical algorithm correctly identified the region of the rail-contact. Finally using column average threshold method has been proposed on rail-contact areas for defect detection.	Railway rails, Non-destructive inspection, Defect detection, Image processing, Averaging thresholding
494	Multi-Criteria for the Evaluation of Logistics Centers in Turkey Investment Priority Decision Model Proposal	The establishment of logistics centers is strategically important for the investments that can be made for the economic development of our country which is located on the logistics routes geographically. The most important problem that must be addressed and resolved in the action plan, after the investment decision, is that which region or regions of our country should be selected for these centers. Although there are many methods used in solving establishment location problems, the Multiple Criteria Decision Making method is among the most preferred methods. In this study, 6 Logistics Centers, which have completed their survey and feasibility studies and have reached the tender stage within TCDD, have been discussed. The primary aim of the study is to determine the most correct logic center and to develop this center. In line with the criteria determined in the Logistics Master Plan, 6 Logistics Center investments were evaluated using Analytic Hierarchy Process and TOPSIS methods, which are among the Multiple Criteria Decision Making methods. Weights of the criteria were determined by using AHP method, a decision matrix was created with actual data, and the order of investments was determined by TOPSIS method.	Logistic center, AHS, TOPSIS
495	Maintenance Planning of Railway Vehicles with AHP, COPRAS and Integer Programming Integration	In the logistics sector, maintenance of vehicles on time and ensuring their availability are essential to ensure safe, uninterrupted and efficient rail transport and to meet customer expectations in a timely and complete manner. Maintenance activities generally consist of costly and limited resources. It is only possible to meet the maintenance needs of the enterprises by using systematic and effective maintenance planning models. The production and maintenance costs of railway vehicles are higher than they are considered, the service life of the vehicles goes up to 70-80 years, and the possible accident results can be very hazardous, which shows the importance of maintenance of railway vehicles. In addition to these, there are many factors that affect the attitude of the railway enterprises on maintenance. Business policy, budget constraints, short- and medium-term transport plans and customer expectations are the most important factors. Under all these problems and constraints, the critical level of freight wagons owned by a railway train operator for maintenance optimization has been determined with the AHP-COPRAS combination and a one-year maintenance plan for these wagons has been obtained with an integer programming model. Thanks to the solution created by this cooperation, an annual revision maintenance plan has been created to minimize the transportation activities of the enterprise.	Rail Systems, Railway Vehicles, Maintenance Optimization, AHP, COPRAS
496	New Generation Green Composite Sleepers	Many composite sleeper technologies have been developed in different parts of the world. These technologies have emerged as a potential alternative to traditional sleepers which are steel sleepers, wood sleepers and concrete sleepers. Unlike steel and concrete, composite sleepers can be designed to imitate the behavior of wood sleepers, they are virtually maintenance-free and superior in terms of the environment. Within the scope of this study, information about composite sleepers such as Type 1, Type 2 and Type 3 containing different amounts and lengths of fiber on railways were given and the performance and comparison of these sleepers were carried out in detail. Comparison of composite sleepers with conventional types of wood, steel and concrete sleepers was performed, and the difficulties occurring during the use of composite sleepers were mentioned, and recommendations were made on the technical and cost aspects of these sleepers in order to find wide use in railways.	Railways, Composite, Sleepers, New Generation
523	Air Quality Assessment by Statistical Learning-Based Regularization	PM10 can be stated as a particulate matter smaller than 10 micrometer and it can be suspended in the air. The incremental concentration of PM10 affects both human and environment drastically. In this study, an air quality assessment by exhibiting the potential relationships among the secondary indicators and PM10 has been focused. For the analyses, statistical learning-based regularization procedures such as Ridge, the Lasso and Elastic-net algorithms have been practiced. In particular, use of Elastic-net algorithm in predicting PM10 concentration includes a novelty. As a result of the computational studies, it has been recorded that all the models showed high accuracy capacities. However, the elastic-net model outperforms the other models both accuracy and robustness (stability). Considering the error measurements (MSE and MAPE), the best numerical results have been provided by the Elastic-net model. Use of machine learning-based regularization algorithms in environmental problems can provide accurate model structures as well as generality and transparency.	Regularization, Regression, Air quality, PM10
524	Behavior of Pile Steel Pile Systems used in Pier Structures Under Wave Load	In our country that is surrounded by seas on three sides, harbor, pieranddock structures has gained importance in terms of geopolitical value. Our country is located in theearth quake zone where geologically and geophysically active tectonic faultsreside. Especially in seismic zones, earthquake- resistant design and application are important forcoast a land port structures. The theories and formulas given within the scope of DLH 2008 seismic technical regulations of Coastal and Harbor Structures, Railways and Airport Constructions, are used in the design and design stages. In this study, piled pier structure on sand ground has been studied. Various models with different pile diameter sizes have been created. Different layouts are formed with 4D-8D intervals as recommended in DLH 2008. Sap2000 v.20 computer program is used for modeling. Detailed in formation regarding the piled scaffolding structure is given. The results of the ideal pile diameter and spacing according to soi lconditions and changing wave periods are presented in the graphs.	Pier structures, Pile foundations, Dynamic analysis
525	Energy and Exergy Analysis of HVAC Applications in Hospitals	In this study, energy and exergy analysis of HVAC systems used in Qaladze hospital in Sulaymaniyah, Iraq were done by using the first and second laws of thermodynamics. The average values of thermal energy and exergy efficiencies for the boiler and air handling units were found as 89%, 19.5% and 81.5%, 24%, respectively. The cooling coefficient of performance of the chiller group was calculated as 4.82 on average. It was determined that HVAC systems generally provide thermal comfort in the hospital. But it was concluded that all components of HVAC systems should be constantly checked to improve the thermal conditions and indoor air quality in the hospital.	Hospital, Energy, Exergy, HVAC
526	A Decision Support System Proposal for Closed Loop Production Routing Problem	"Production routing problem; is a supply chain problem where production, inventory, distribution and routing decisions are made together. The main aim of this problem is to make more cost-effective decisions, with decisions being made in an integrated manner. In this study, a decision support system that deals with the closed loop version of this problem is proposed. In the proposed decision support system, the DH algorithm has been applied for the production routing problem in closed loop supply chains. The DH algorithm decomposes the problem and aims to solve sub-problems interactively in a small time. In order to demonstrate the real-life applications of the system, the problem examined for a one-month planning period is applied for a company producing fats oil and it is found that the costs are lower than the current application."	DH algorithm, Closed loop supply chains, Decision support system, Production routing problem *
527	A Study on Selected Comfort Properties of Post-Consumer Recycled Denim Fabrics	Denim is a kind of fabric that plays an outstanding role in the world market and appeals to users from all ages and all walks of life. Post-consumer concept as is the process of reusing textile materials after completing the life cycle period. Recycling of post-consumer wastes involves the collection of waste and the production of yarn from these wastes for use in new clothing. In this study, air permeability, stiffness and determination of dimensional change during washing and drying of post-consumer denim fabrics was determined according to the standards. According to the results, this recycling process can be used effectively in denim production.	Post-consumer recycle, Denim, Air permeability, Stiffness
529	Design of Carbon Monoxide (CO) and Smoke Sensor, and Creation of Warning System with Fixed Telephone Call Using These Sensors	"A sensor system has been designed and realized, in order to prevent considerably the carbon monoxide (CO) gas poisoning, caused by the combustion of the substances containing hydro-carbon (HC) for heating purposes in our country. The system controls CO and smoke, which adversely affect human health. In the event of CO and smoke in the air, a fixed phone call warning system has been installed to alert the user.', 'For CO sensor; The ash particles which was formed as a result of chemical synthesis of polypyrrole (Ppy), iron (III) chloride and acetic acid (CH3COOH) components, was compressed into a single piece by pressing with Hydraulic Press Machine. The electrical current conductivity was measured by the electrodes immersed in this monolithic product which its surface conductivity differs according to the ratio of CO in the air. Thus, the measurement of CO in any environment was able to be performed.', 'For smoke sensor; A duct system was established to measure the density of smoke particles present in the atmosphere. Inside of this duct, a source of LED light, and a phototransistor system was placed in order to perceive the reflected rays emitted from this light source, by crashing to the smoke particles. And, the amount of reflected light connected to the smoke particles inside of the duct was measured. Thus, the measurement of smoke in any environment was able to be performed."	CO sensor, Carbon monoxide sensor, Smoke sensor, Early warning system
530	Carbothermic Reduction of Mixed Nickel-Cobalt Hydroxide Precipitate	Mixed hydroxide precipitation (MHP) is an intermediate product that is produced in the hydrometallurgical processing chain of nickel laterite ores. Although MHP finds buyers as a commercial product, it is considered an intermediate product with low economic value due to impurities it contains. Separating the nickel contained in MHP from other impurities and transforming it into products with higher economic value has been the subject of many researches. In this research, the reducibility of the MHP sample was examined. The aim was to reduce nickel oxide to metallic nickel thereby allowing it to be separated from other impurities. For this, after the MHP sample was calcined, it was mixed with a certain amount of reducing coal. The mixture was pelleted and heated to 1050 ° C in a tube furnace and under nitrogen gas. Mineralogical structure and microstructure of the reduced samples were investigated.	Nickel, MHP, Reduction
532	RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CONSUMER BEHAVIOR BEFORE AND AFTER PURCHASE IN SOCIAL MEDIA	Technologies in the field of communication are developing rapidly today. Social media refers to communication and broadcasting platforms where individuals create interpersonal interaction. Social media marketing is an attempt to use social media to make companies' products or services important to consumers and enable them to buy them. Consumer behavior examines how they attitude and purchase when choosing products and services to meet customers' needs and wants. The “Relationship Between Consumer Behaviors Before and After Purchase in Social Media” study was carried out by using survey technique on 100 people. It was aimed to determine how the demographic characteristics of the users affect their behavior before and after purchasing on social media and to determine the relationship between consumers' behavior before and after purchasing. Parametric tests were used to determine the relationship between consumer behavior before and after purchasing on social media, and the results obtained were interpreted.	Social Media, Social Media Marketing, Consumer Behavior, Parametric Analysis, Before And After Purchasing
533	Improved Whale Optimization Algorithm Based On ? Number	In this study, an improved version is presented as a result of experiments performed on the whale optimization algorithm (WOA) in the literature. As a result of the experiments, number was added to the coefficient vector of the algorithm. The developed WOA algorithm based on the number of was adapted to test problems. The 23 most common Benchmark functions have been selected as test problems. In line with the results, it was observed that the exploitation and exploration phases of the WOA developed. The success of the results has proven itself in comparison with other algorithms.	Whale Optimization Algorithm, Benchmark Functions, optimization
534	Title Paleoseismological and Neotectonic Characteristics of Çaldıran Fault Around Çaldıran District	The Çaldıran Fault having a character of strike slip fault with a dextral slip is one of the major active faults in the Eastern Anatolia region of Turkey. The destructive earthquake produced by the fault on November 24, 1976 caused significant damage and loss of life, and created a surface rupture of 50-55 km. In this study carried out on the basis of surface deformation and paleoseismology around the Çaldıran settlement, it was determined that there are fault lines where the surface ruptures occurred in the last earthquake are still protected. The studies of surface investigation and paleoseismological trenching show that there were at least three earthquakes (events) forming surface rupture (M?7) in the region during the Holocene. Around Çaldıran, 1.5 m right lateral and 30-40 cm vertical ofsetts were measured in the last earthquake. On the other hand, it was determined that the recurrence interval for major earthquakes of 280 years, the short-term horizontal slip rate of 5.36 mm/yr-1 and vertical slip rate of 1.43 mm/yr-1 considering that the historical earthquake that occurred in the area of Çaldıran district in 1696 [18] was produced by the Çaldıran Fault.	Çaldıran fault, Paleoseismology, Earthquake, Recurrence interval, Slip-rate
535	Experimental Investigation of the Flow Characteristics around a NACA0012 Airfoil Subjected to Stall and Post-Stall Conditions	The flow structure and turbulent characteristics of an airfoil at various Reynolds numbers (Rec = 1.5×104, 2.0×104, 2.5×104) have been investigated considering two angles of attack (? = 10o and ? = 12o). PIV measurements have been performed and time-averaged and instantaneous results were presented utilizing vorticity, profiles of streamwise velocity, Reynolds shear stress, and turbulent kinetic energy distributions. The results have shown that both the Rec and ? significantly affect the flow characteristics around the airfoil. Furthermore, the change in flow characteristics between the stall and post-stall angles was elaborated and compared with each other, as being in good agreement with the available literature. The turbulent fluctuations in the airfoil wake, as well as in the suction side, were obtained to be more intense at post-stall angle compared with the stall condition. Besides, due to the earlier flow separation, post-stall condition presented a larger wake and the shedding of vortices formed by the leading and trailing edges of the airfoil.	Airfoil, Stall, PIV, Flow structure
536	Design of a Test System for Compressibility and Resilience Performance Measurement of Floor Coverings	"The quality of floor coverings is evaluated according to their resistance to texture deformation. The most important factors affecting the texture deformation of floor coverings are static loads causing the compression of floor coverings, thereby the appearance of floor coverings deteriorated unfavorably. The compressibility and resilience performance of floor covering determine the appearance retention level of pile yarns. There are two types of tests to determine the compressibility and resilience performance of floor coverings namely; thickness loss after prolonged heavy static loading and thickness loss after brief moderate static loading. In this study, it is aimed to design a test system for compressibility and resilience performance measurement of floor coverings. The test system will be capable of automatically applying necessary pressure for both brief moderate static loading and prolonged heavy static loading tests. By providing these two tests and the thickness measurement by a solo device, the test procedures will be achieved automatically."	Compressibility, Carpet, Resilience, Static loading, Floor covering
537	Petrography and Stratigraphy of the Paleozoic and Mesozoic Units Exposed in the Gürleşen-Tülü (Adana, Eastern Taurus) Area	In this research, detailed petrographic and stratigraphic examinations of the units in the area between Saimbeyli and Gürleşen-Tülü villages (Adana) were presented. In the study area, Ordovician aged shale and schist shale alternation of the Armutludere formation form the basement. The Ayıtepesi formation, which consists of an alternation of Early Devonian aged sandstone, mudstone, shale and clayey limestone unconformably overlies this unit. Above, the Şafaktepe formation, which composed of the Middle Devonian dolomitized limestones conformably overlying Ayıtepesi formation. On top of this unit, the Gümüşali formation consisting of an alternation of Late Devonian aged sandstone, shale, limestone deposited concordantly. The Permian age Yığılıtepe formation consisting of limestones is discordant on the Gümüşali formation. The Lower Triassic age Katarası formation composed of sandstone, marl and clayey limestone overlies this formation concordantly. The Jura-Cretaceous age Köroğlutepesi formation, consisting of grey and beige limestones, is unconformably sitting on the Katarası formation. As a result of petrographic studies carried out on 21 thin sections compiled from the region, it was revealed that clastic sediments in the area are generally re-worked in a low-energy environment, sand-rich components are not washed well and most of the carbonate rocks in the region are microsparitic.	Petrography, Stratigraphy, Eastern Taurus, Gürleşen-Tülü
538	Effect of the Use of Calcite as a Substitute for Cement on Compressive Strength	The environmental problems associated with cement production are based on energy consumption and resulting factory emissions. In many studies carried out in order to reduce the environmental effects of cement, it is reported that the materials used by substitution method have a positive effect on the development of strength and durability. In this context, while the amount of cement consumed decreases, on the other hand, cement-based composites with equal or superior properties can be obtained.  In the study, micronized calcite was substituted into cement by weight at 0%, 3%, 5% and 10% ratios. The subsidence values of the fresh concrete obtained with calcite mineral were determined at different rates. The sedimentation values of fresh concrete obtained with calcite mineral substituted in different proportions were determined. Hardened concrete samples were subjected to water absorption, ultrasound transition speed, Schmidt hammer and compressive strength tests. As a result, it has been determined that the use of calcite up to 10% increases the compressive strength of concrete.	concrete, cement, calcite, strenght
539	Acoustic Properties in Asphalt Pavements	Noise is a factor that damages the environment and human health due to the rapidly increasing population in big cities. Today it has become more open in crowded places. Noise can be defined as sounds that disturb people and the environment. Noise from traffic is one of the most important factors that will cause noise. These noises are caused by both the multiplicity of vehicles and the characteristics of road pavements. Therefore, various measures can be taken to reduce noise effects. In this study, the effects of different road pavements on noise were investigated. Stone mastic asphalt, porous asphalt and dense gradation asphalt coatings differ acoustically according to the material properties they contain. Considering the acoustic properties of road pavements according to their types, it is possible to produce pavements that will cause less noise.	Noise, Acoustic properties, Flexible pavements, Stone Mastic Asphalt, Porous Asphalt
541	FUTURE PROJECTION OF OLIVE PRODUCTION IN ÇANAKKALE	Global warming is one of the most important problems in the world due to its effects not only on human life but also on agricultural products and food safety, sustainability, and water resources. The present study aims to investigate the influence of climatic changes on olive cultivation in North-West Turkey for the next 50 years. In this context, the data were collected from 182 coordinates in olive cultivation areas in Çanakkale which is situated at the intersection of the Euro-Asian region. The data were analysed using MaxEnt software to determine the projection of olive cultivation for the next 50 years. The results show that the optimistic scenario is (representative concentration pathways) RCP 2.6 (2070) while the pessimistic scenario is RCP 8.5 (2070) for Çanakkale olive cultivation. When the results were compared with the current conditions of Çanakkale, the RCP 2.6 scenario indicated that potential olive cultivation areas would mostly be protected. On the other hand, according to the worst scenario, these areas would decrease in size. All of the scenarios, however, show that olive cultivation areas will spread towards the mountainous areas of Çanakkale. Additionally, total olive cultivation areas in Çanakkale will increase depending on climatic changes in 2070. In conclusion, even if climatic changes may lead to an increase olive production yield, their effects on olive and olive oil quality are unknown.	Climate Change, Scenario Analysis, Risk, Adaptation, Yield, Olive Cultivation
542	The Effect of Design Phase Meetings on Change Orders in Building Construction Projects	Management of the design phase of construction projects affects the success of the projects. Generally, architects are the main actors who dominate the whole process of the building constructions. In this study, the architects’ design experiences in terms of the effect of design phase meetings on change orders in building construction projects are investigated. As a result of the study, it is concluded that there is no relationship between the frequency of meetings and requested and realized project changes in the design phase. It is also observed that, except for the architects, if the formation of the stakeholders participating in the design meetings can be varied, this can minimize the project changes and possible problems due to conflicting interests, and the participation of different groups to the design phase meetings could be a way of keeping the requests of changes in design and construction stage to a minimum.	Change orders, Construction cost, Concurrent engineering, Construction management, Stakeholders, Project success
543	Max-Pooling Circuit Designs for Convolutional Neural Networks	Deep Learning applications are rapidly developing, especially in mobile devices. Existing performance, power and space constraints on these platforms increase the need for application-specific hardware designs. One of the most current methods in image processing is Convolutional Neural Networks. In this study, max-pooling unit designs, which is an important process block of Convolutional Neural Networks, are presented. The max-pooling layer is in the critical delay path of the Convolutional Neural Network design and is important to influence the main conversion rate of a pipeline integrated circuit. The total frame processing times of the proposed designs are much shorter than the Standard Design. The proposed designs can be integrated into different pipeline structures. All designs are modeled with VHDL and synthesized on a current FPGA platform. The synthesis results show that the fastest of the proposed designs processes a 128x128 frame around 8.1 times faster than the Standard Design.	Max-pooling, Convolutional neural network, Digital design
544	Damped and Undamped Forced Vibration Analysis of Beams Made of Functionally Graded Materials	In this study, a research has been conducted on the forced vibration behavior of beams with functionally graded (FG) material along the height of the cross-section under various dynamic loads. The effects of different boundary conditions, length-height (L/h) ratios and material variation coefficients on damped and undamped forced vibrations of Euler-Bernoulli and Timoshenko beams are also examined parametrically. The equations of motion which govern the behavior of the beams with FG material have been obtained with the help of the minimum total energy principle. The canonical differential equations obtained are solved numerically in the Laplace space with the aid of Complementary Functions Method (CFM). Kelvin type damping model is used in case of viscoelastic material. In this model, elastic constants are replaced by their complex counterparts in the Laplace space by means of the elastic- viscoelastic analogy. The accuracy of the results of the proposed method has been confirmed by comparing it with the results of the ANSYS finite element package program.	Functionally graded materials, Complementary functions method, Inverse Laplace transform, Kelvin damping model
545	Determination of Standard and Modified Proctor Properties of Clay Soils in Eastern and Northern of Van Lake	In this study, the changes in the engineering properties of the soil in case of application of compaction energy, which is an important parameters of the compaction, in different amounts have been investigated. For the study, disturbed clay samples obtained from different locations in eastern and northern of Van Lake, have been used. Firstly, all clay soils were subjected to Proctor experiments and optimum water content (?opt) and maximum dry unit volume weight (?k-max) values were determined. In the second stage, samples taken from the compaction test were subjected to consolidation test. Considering the results of consolidation, it was determined that as the compaction energy applied to the soil increases, the dry unit volume weight and pre-consolidation pressure increase while the optimum water content and void ratio decrease. When the proctor values of the samples taken from the region are analyzed, it was determined that all clay samples can be used in the filling except the Çaldıran region. In addition, high correlation coefficient was obtained in the correlations between the Plastic Limit values and the Proctor compaction parameters of these clays.	Clay, Proctor compaction test, Compaction energy, Van
547	Optimization of the Effect of Processing Parameters on Surface Roughness and Cutting Energy in CNC Milling of Al-7075 Material	In this study, it is intended to determine the most suitable process parameters for surface roughness and cutting energy of the 7075 series aluminum material in dry environment conditions by using Taguchi method in CNC milling. The process parameters were determined as, cutting speed, feed rate and cutting depth and the effects of these parameters on surface roughness, current flow through the grid and the energy consumed were examined. As a result, optimum process parameters were determined and the results were analyzed by graphs. It was observed that the most effective parameter on the surface roughness was the feed rate, while the most effective parameter on the current drawn from the network was the cutting depth. As a result of the experiments, the best surface roughness value was found to be 0.39 µm and the lowest current value was 0.9 A. In addition, considering the determined current amount and processing time, the lowest energy amount consumed was calculated as 7089.28 J.	Milling process, Taguchi method, Cutting parameters, Surface roughness, Energy
548	Exergy Analysis of a Transkritical CO2 Compression Refrigeration System with Internal Heat Exchanger for Different Design Parameters	In this study, effect of the design parameters of a transkritical refrigeration cycle using carbon dioxide refrigerant (R744) with internal heat exchanger on energy and exergy efficiencies were investigated. Quality of the refrigerant at the exit of the expansion valve and amount of superheating supplied by the internal heat exchanger were considered as design parameters. For this aim, in order to determine the energy transfer, the exergy destruction, entropy generation and exergy efficiency within the all components, the calculations were carried out at evaporation temperature of 0 oC and condensation pressure of 10 MPa. In addition to this, performance coefficient and the exergy efficiency of the whole system were calculated. The most suitable refrigerant qualities at superheating values of 5 oC and 30 oC were determined as between 0,42–0,47 and 0,31–0,36, respectively.	Transkritical refrigeration cycle, Internal heat exchanger, Carbon dioxide, Exergy destruction
549	Investigation of Some Physico-Mechanical Properties of Diatomite Aggregate Block Elements in High Temperature and Freezing-Thawing Effect	In this study, the use of diatomite, which has a high pozzolanic property, in light concrete block production was investigated. After the high temperature and freeze-thaw effect of some 10x10x10 cm cube samples produced using aggregates with different grain distributions (granulometry) with cement dosage (220 kg/m3) and water/cement ratio (0.15) constant. Changes in properties are examined. For experimental studies, aggregates were produced in 5 different series with 0-4 mm (fine), 4-8 mm (medium) and 8-16 mm (large) grain distribution ratio. Physical changes occurred in samples after high temperature and freeze-thaw effect were determined by determining unit volume weight, porosity, ultrasound, compressive strength and elasticity module values on 28 days of hardened samples. In the results of the experiment, it was observed that the unit volume weight values varied between 1182,33- 1273,37 kg/m3, after freezing-thawing, a decrease in compressive strength was observed along with an average 8.53% mass decrease with crumbling and breaking down. While an average mass decrease of 7.9% occurred with high temperature effect (600 oC), an average increase of 55.22% was observed in compressive strength.	Diatomite, Lightweight block materials, High temperature (fire), Freeze-thaw
550	Arduino Based Matlab/Simulink Program Controlled Battery Charge Unit Design and Application for Solar Energy Systems	The developing technology, industrialization and the increase in the world population growing up the energy consumption rapidly, in parallel, the reserves of fossil fuels are rapidly depleted. Since fossil energy sources cause environmental problems and their reserves are limited and available in certain regions, countries have been focused on renewable energy sources. The energy produced by solar panels varies depending on atmospheric events. So, it is not possible to charge the battery directly. For this reason, in this study, an Arduino based charge control unit is designed and implemented to increase the life cycle of the batteries used in off-grid photovoltaic (PV) systems and provide overcharge and discharge protection of the battery. The DC/DC buck converter is designed for the system using Matlab/Simulink platform. Closed loop control of the system using Matlab/Simulink program on Ardiuno software development card is carried out with proportional-integral (PI) controller. In addition, software and hardware devices required for the system are designed succesfully. As a result, Arduino based PI controlled DC-DC charging unit is performed in both simulation and experimental set up and the results are discussed.	Solar energy, Arduino, Matlab/Simulink, PI controller, Battery charge unit design
551	Agent Based System Design for the Human Resources Department	By virtue of a good human resources management that businesses can continue their activities efficiently. Operations are carried out faster and more integrative by managing human resources through intelligent systems. The use of autonomous intelligent agent systems in the design and implementation of a complex system such as human resources is important in solving the problems experienced. From this point of view, in this study, a design is realized for the jobs applied in the human resources department of the enterprises by applying Prometheus methodology, which is one of the agent-based approaches. The compatibility of Prometheus methodology and development environment within the system is detailed and the obtained design is demonstrated.	Agent based systems, Human resources, Prometheus
552	Modeling a Tracked Mobile Robot and Trajectory Control by Using Fuzzy Logic	In this study, a tracked autonomous vehicle was designed and the trajectory control of the designed autonomous vehicle has been carried out using a fuzzy logic controller (FLC). The multi-purpose autonomous vehicle has the features of automatic steering, performing a specific task, carrying loads to various environments. Different control techniques are used in the trajectory control of autonomous vehicles. The performance of the orbital control structure of the autonomous robot has been compared with the classical PI controller and simulation studies were realized by using the control system Matlab/Simulink model. It has been demonstrated by simulation studies that BMD increases the performance of the system and provides a more stable structure.	Tracked mobile robot, Dynamic modeling, Kinematic modeling, PI, FLC
553	An Experimental Evaluation of Control Modes for Pneumatic Artificial Muscles Using Fast on/off Valves	Pneumatic Artificial Muscles (PAM) are versatile actuators having many advantages such as high force to weight ratio, soft and flexible structure, extreme safe for human, ease of maintenance and low cost. On the other hand, their inherent nonlinear characteristics yields difficulties in control actions, which is an important factor restricting wide-spread use of PAM. In literature, there are studies to resolve the control issue and their results indicate that there is still requirement for a simple and effective control system. In this work, as a first step of achieving the control goal, three common nonlinear controllers used in literature are selected for an experimental evaluation. The implemented controllers are ‘Classical PID controller’, ‘Fuzzy PID controller’ and ‘Sliding-Mode Controller’ (SMC). The evaluation is performed using a test rig, which is a 1-D robotic arm orthosis actuated by Festo PAMs operated with fast on/off valves. According to experimental results, a model-free Sugeno type combined fuzzy PID controller has yielded most successful performance indicating that it could be a simple and effective solution for PAM control issue.	Pneumatic artificial muscle, PID control, Fuzzy PID control, Fast on/off valve
554	The Effect of Sinusoidally Changing Magnetic Field Strength on Flow Separation and Heat Transfer in Backward-Facing Step Geometry	Flow separation is a physical phenomenon that greatly affects the performance in aerodynamic and heat transfer applications and cannot be neglected during design. Backward-facing step is the reference geometry, which is important in the studies carried out to examine the flow separation or to investigate the effectiveness of control methods aimed at manipulating the separated flow. In this study, the effect of the magnetic field, which is an active flow control method, on flow separation in backward-facing step geometry and heat transfer were investigated numerically. The intensity of the magnetic field was changed continuously, depending on a sinusoidal function over time. The investigation was limited to laminer flow conditions. Water based iron oxide (Fe3O4 – water) nanofluid was used as a working fluid and the nanofluid modeled as a single phase. As a result of numerical simulations, the method examined has been found to be successful in influencing the wake flow and the convective heat transfer caused by the flow in this zone.	Backward-facing step, Flow control methods, Flow seperation, Heat transfer, Magnetohydrodynamics
555	Production and Mechanical Properties of Surface Modified Nettle Fiber Reinforced Polyester Composite	In this study nettle fiber which known as a textile fiber reinforced polyester composite material was produced and the mechanical properties of the material were investigated. The surface of the nettle fiber was abraded by 1%, 3%, 5% and 10% NaOH in four different ratios. The reinforcement ratio of the fiber to the matrix is kept constant and 30%. The fibers were scanned in the longitudinal direction and placed in the ribbon-shaped composite. Composite materials are produced with plates as RTM technology. Tensile strength of the reinforcement element, 3-point bending strength and impact strength were investigated. It has been observed that the alkali treatment (NaOH) applied to nettle fiber reduces the tensile strength but improves the bending and impact strength. The study has been shown that stinging nettle fiber can be used as a reinforcing composite material.	Composite, Nettle fiber, Surface modification, Mechanical properties, Polyester resin
556	A Simulation Algorithm for Appraising the Effect of Spare Parts Inventory Model on Machine Availability	This study intends to develop a simulation algorithm that is capable of evaluating the effect of a spare parts inventory policy on the availability of mining machinery. Scheduled production and maintenance halts and the random downtimes caused by machinery failures are regarded in the algorithm. Available inventory stock levels and the active lead times are evaluated together with these downtimes. By this way, negative effects of the applied inventory policies on machinery availabilities can be measured. The developed algorithm was implemented for a mining machinery, and the inventory policies introduced for the thirteen different components of this machinery were discussed according to their potential negative effects on the machinery availability. In the results, it was detected that eight out of thirteen components have the spare part storage and procurement policies that are not accordant with the component failure behaviors, and this situation leads to a decrease of 9% in the machinery availability.	Mining machinery, Spare parts, Inventory policy, Machinery availability, Simulation algorithm
557	Investigation of the Effects of Openair® Plasma System on Polyester Contained Warp Knitted Fabrics	Plasma is more environmentally friendly application compared to conventional wet processes with its advantages such as low energy, water and chemical consumption. In previous studies different non- thermal plasma systems have been applied to textile surfaces, and in some applications, an increase in the dye uptake of the material has been determined. In this study, Openair® plasma system, a technique that has not been evaluated yet its effect on the dyeability of textile surfaces, has been studied. The warp knitted fabrics with 100% polyester content were treated with Openair® plasma system in 3 different times. Then untreated reference sample and treated samples were colored with dispers and pigment dyes under equal dyeing conditions. SEM and FT/IR analyzes and color measurements with a spectrophotometer were performed.	Warp knitted fabric, Sustainable finishing, Plasma technique, Openair® plasma, Dyeability
558	Experimental Determination of Drying Kinetics of Peanut Dried by using Drying Air at Different Humidity	Drying and storing of products is a widely used method since ancient times. The main purpose of the food drying process is to remove the water contained in the product from the product. In this way, the development of microorganisms in the product will be stopped and the shelf life of the products will be extended. In this study, the drying of the peanut product produced and harvested in Osmaniye was investigated for different absolute humidity values of the drying air. The drying behavior of peanuts was determined experimentally using the experimental setup designed and manufactured. In the study, the experimentally obtained moisture ratio value was fit to 22 different thin layer drying models. As a result of the study, it was observed that for the drying air at the same temperature, the diffusion coefficient and the drying rate increase with the decrease of the drying air humidity. The thin layer drying model developed by Hii et al. was determined as the model best converging to the experimentally obtained moisture ratio value.	Peanut, Drying, Drying kinetics, Moisture ratio, Mathematical model
559	Evaluation of Global Innovation Index with Clustering Analysis	Rapidly changing technology and the rapid increase in competition with globalization increases the importance of innovation efforts for companies and countries. It is important to measure innovation in order for companies and/or countries to determine their competitiveness, to analyze the current situation and to determine a road map for innovation. As there are many factors affecting innovation, there are various studies on measuring innovation. Annually published the Global Innovation Index (GII) measures the innovation of countries using many indicators that affect innovation. In this study, the three sub- headings under each of the main indicators of innovation input and output subscale in the 2018 GII report were taken into consideration and the data of 126 countries were analyzed by clustering analysis. In this study, Ward’s Technique and K-Means method are used.	Innovation, Global innovation index, Clustering analysis
560	Relocation and Resettlement Policies on Disaster Prone Areas: The Case of Dogubayazit Earthquake	Resettlement after different disasters has become the main policy, especially in post-disaster restructuring, of developing countries. Generally, resettlement has negative effects on the displaced population. However, a well-planned and well-managed settlement process can yield positive results in the long run. In this study, the relocation process on 15-years period after the earthquake which had affected Dogubayazit District and its four villages are examined. And the results obtained from the role of relocation in reducing the risk of disasters for the future is evaluated. By this research, it is exposed that, post disaster resettlement processes are important for reducing future hazard risk in a disaster-prone area. In general, resettlement in urban areas is more successfully implemented than in rural areas.	Disasters, Resettlement policies, Relocation, Site selection, Urban planning, Dogubayazit
567	EVALUATION OF QUALIFICATIONS OF DISASTER AND EMERGENCY ASSEMBLY POINTS FOR KOCAELİ BAŞİSKELE DISTRICT	Natural and technological hazards do not turn into disasters by preventive and protective activities and risk reduction. One of the most important activities in disaster management is determining the size, distribution, and infrastructure of assembly points that should be taken into consideration to be used during and post-disaster. In this study, we examined the qualification of assembly points identified neighborhood and local level by the Provincial Directorates of Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency (AFAD) in the case of Kocaeli/Başiskele district. In the first phase of the study, the existing Assembly Points were classified according to international criteria, and in the second phase, the suitability values of these areas according to the criteria were determined by the Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) method. The results of this study show that 77,14% of the assembly points designated for Başiskele have electricity and water infrastructure. According to data, it is found that only 5 of 22 neighborhood assembly points do not appear as proper assembly points in terms of square meters. We expect that our research outcomes should provide enhance the efficiency of planning studies, and contribute to the development of the region's capacity for disaster response and resilience.	AHP, Disaster Assembly Point, Disaster Planning, Disaster Risk Management, Crisis Management
568	FEATURE ANALYSIS FOR MULTI-CRITERIA RATING VALUES OF AIRLINE COMPANIES	The development of information and communication technologies offers the possibility of collecting and sharing customer views, comments and ratings about products and services over the Internet. Customers generally make these evaluations based on multiple criteria. This study uses such data recorded on Skytrax to analyse the performance of leading airlines. It does so using the a multicriteria decision making technique (Promethee II), and the criteria weight values required for the Promethee II method are obtained from a Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), an artificial neural network method. According to the results obtained, ANA airline has shown improvements in the years and moved up to the top, while the ranking of United airline within two years has not changed. The paper provides details of the technique and graphically presents results to highlight where airlines possess advantages over their competitors.	Multi Criteria Decision Making, Artificial Neural Network, Multi-layer Perceptron, Promethee II, Airline Companies
569	Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Production With Additive Manufacturing	In this study, the design, analysis, and production of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) was carried out using SLS (Selective Laser Sintering) production technology. Herein, a multidisciplinary project was realized on the four different aircraft models supported by CFD analysis and the results during the taxing were compared using flow parameters. We observed that according to the numerical study, the design of the model 4 was the most suitable one among the tested models, which was then further utilized for design viability, in-flight CFD analysis, and for the production using SLS process. Finally, the actual flight test was performed in three different weather conditions, and the results are presented here.	aviation, additive manufacturing, SLS, UAV, fluent, polyamide
570	Surface Finish Processes of Additively Manufactured Metal Parts	Additive Manufacturing (AM) offers the possibility of manufacturing of parts with complex geometries which are not possible to be manufactured by conventional machining processes. Since it is likely to manufacture geometry-free parts as a single element, which have similar mechanical properties compared to their counterparts manufactured by machining or plastic deformation methods, AM methods grown very popular recently.', 'Although AM methods have lots of advantages, there are also some disadvantages concerning surface quality. Parts with low fatigue strength due to their bad surface quality can not offer high performance under dynamic load conditions. For this reason, additively manufactured parts should be subjected to surface finish processes in order to eliminate surface roughness.', 'In this work, surface finish processes that are applied to additively manufactured metal parts, for the purpose of surface roughness elimination thus fatigue strength increase, have been explained.	Additive Manufacturing, Surface finishing
571	Comparative Evaluation Of Development, Existing Case and Investment Plans on High Speed Railways in National, Regional and International Scale	"Transport, from the existence of mankind to today; the causes and consequences of social relations and technical developments constitute one of the main elements of an integrated system. It is therefore at the center of all social, economic, technical, cultural and political processes as a driving force. Transportation, which is inextricably linked to urbanization and has a reciprocal relationship, will only be able to provide 'inputs and outputs' in a coherent and integrated systematic approach. One of the most important dilemmas of our country for many decades has been the fact that every arena approach and non-integrative actions and thoughts are taking place. From this point of view, our basic need for an integrated approach is in many respects, especially in academy, market, urbanization and transportation, theory and practice. We live in similar issues, such as 'integration between modes, humanfocused approach, balanced distribution, upgrading of service parameters' which are the main subjects of transportation.On this context firstly the general concept of HSR is evaluated, then Germany and United Kingdom system samples are revealed for a focused discussion. After these, a detailed comparison has done by means of USA and EU transportation data. Lastly investment costs are analysed generally. As a result conclusions and recommendations are given on a continental scale."	Operation, modal distribution, high speed railways
573	Humanitarian Logistics Management After A Disaster: An Earthquake Case	Post-disaster relief logistics includes logistics activities in the shortest time. Inventory routing problems have decided routing decisions considering inventory levels during the planning horizon at minimum cost. In this study, an inventory routing problem for the distribution after the disaster has been proposed. The problem aims the distribution of the supplies needed considering available inventory levels at minimum time. Distribution amount and the routes under the constraints of routing and inventory amounts for affected people have been decided. An integer programming approach to solve the problem has been proposed and solved. The proposed model is solved for a case of Van earthquake which occurred at 2011 in Turkey. The results from the case study show us that determining the inventory and routing decisions simultaneously can provide less logistic activities. In addition to this, holding inventory in the central depot can ensure to respond the emergency needs safely and quickly.	Post-disaster relief logistics, Inventory-routing problems, Mathematical modelling
582	Calculation of some exergetic indicators in a solar dryer and modeling with artificial neural network	Thermodynamic analysis, especially exergy analysis, is an important tool for analysis of thermal systems. Many formulations and data are used for exergy calculations in drying systems. Today, it is difficult to process and analyze a large amount of data manually. Therefore, in order to solve a given problem, it is aimed to reach the solution by educating the data obtained from the problem environment with artificial intelligence methods. In this study, apple product was dried in a solar drying system and exergy analysis of the drying process of the product was carried out. The effects of some exergetic indicators on the performance of drying system used in apple product drying were investigated. For this purpose, exergetic indicators such as exergy effect, waste exergy ratio, environmental impact factor, external sustainability index and improvement potential have been taken into consideration. A predictive model was constructed using the artificial neural network to estimate the waste exergy rate, which is an exergetic indicator. Mean absolute error (MAE), root mean square error (RMSE), relative absolute error (RAE) and root relative absolute error (RRAE) error analyzes were used to calculate the validity of the model. As a result, the waste exergy ratio increased as the drying time increased. Exergy efficiency and improvement potential of solar drying system decreased with increasing drying time. The predictive model created using ANN has successfully predicted the rate of waste exergy ratio. It has been shown that the resulting predictive model can be used for different drying systems and different products.	Solar drying, Exergetic indicators, Waste exergy ratio, Artificial neural network
592	Determination of Current Situation at Trend Observed Flow Observation Stations	In this study, the current situations of the stations in which trend detected in almost all months in the study conducted using flow data between 1964 and 2000 is examined. For this purpose, station 311 within the boundaries of Susurluk basin, stations 1203 and 1224 in Sakarya basin, stations 1401 and 1402 in Yeşilırmak basin and stations 1714 in East Mediterranean basin were used. Sen's T and Spearman's Rho tests were applied to the the last 31 years data of the stations in order to determine the current status of the flow data. Also to evaluate the data as a whole same methods were applied to all data too. Trend start years were calculated using Mann-Kendall Rank Correlation test and linear slope of trends were calculated using Sen’s trend slope method. As a result of the study, when trend methods are applied to different periods of the same data, it is seen that trend can be determined in opposite direction or significant changes in slope values can be observed. It is concluded that the current situation should be investigated by applying trend analysis to shorter last term data especially in the stations with long term data. The trends are mostly declining and 1980s are the majority in the beginning of the trend.	Trend analysis, Sen's T test, Spearman's Rho test, Mann-Kendall Rank Correlation test
602	Investigation of wear behavior of Ti-6Al-4V and AISI 316 L biomaterials with ball on disc test device	"Ti-6Al-4V material is generally used in biomaterial applications. However, this material is difficult to supply and an expensive material. Instead of Ti-6Al-4V material; It is investigated whether the use of 316 L material as an alternative is easier and more economical. In this study, Ti-6Al-4V and AISI 316 L test specimens made of the material subjected to the test under the same conditions wear performance were investigated using the ball on disc experimental setup. The experiments were carried out in three replicates in a dry and liquid medium. As a result, in the experiments; AISI 316 L samples are coated with PVD method compared to other samples in wear rates and abrasive wear marks on the surface of the samples were found to decrease. In studies using sodium hyaluronate fluid, it was found that the rate of abrasion and wear traces decreased compared to the dry environment. It was determined that 316 L samples coated with PVD method showed better wear performance compared to uncoated Ti-6Al-4V material."	Biomaterials, Ti-6Al-4V, AISI 316, coating, wear, temperature, SEM, ball on disc
604	Towards Zero Waste in Construction: A Case Study Using Green Building Certification Systems	In many countries of the world like Turkey there are extensive civil engineering constructions in the forms of buildings, skyscrapers, dams, bridges, canals, culverts, pipes and roads. Each one of these activities lead to wastages that need to be dealt with ecosystem friendly coupled with economic, social and environmental sustainability purposes. Construction materials from the resources through their usages and demolishment need special attention for end-product as minimum as wastage generation after reuse possibilities. The linear process of successive resources, usages and landfill end planning is the simplest alternative, which has been applied so far in any country or society, especially, by local governments and companies. Although, between usage and the landfill are interstate reuse benefits, but they are marginal, because the landfills bury large amounts of reuse benefits. Since almost ten years, circular waste treatment programs came into view with extensive consideration, which prior to landfill extracts demolishment materials as much as possible for reuse with the aim of zero waste (ZW). The application sources and possibilities of this trend is exposed for Turkish construction circles with the commercialization of more demolished materials for extra economic return. Thus, this study can be useful to policy and decision makers in developing the ZW guidelines in construction sector by using Site Waste Management Plans (SWMP)s.	Zero Waste, Construction, Demolition, Certification
605	FromIndustryto City GIS basedThematic City Maps in Urban Transformation Applications: Example of UsakProvince	Urban regeneration is a concept that appear with rapid and distorted urbanization due to the migration from villages to the city and emerged with the wear out of cities as a result of natural disaster such as earthquakes, floods and landslides. It improves the physical, social, economic conditions of the regions planned and permanently which have been destroyed, destructed or become collapsed and it brings them back to use. Especially the migrations experienced in our country after the 1950s have created new centers in cities, changed the development aspects of cities and caused the emergence of structures in vertical architecture. Urbanization and settlement problems have become more visible in our country especially after the 1999 Marmara and Düzce earthquakes. TOKI (Housing Development Administration) and municipalities under the leadership of reducing the risk of disaster and recycling of slum areas projects started to be implemented.   A study was carried out for Urban Transformation projects. As an application, the industrial zone, which is planned for the future urban transformation in Uşak, was selected. A survey with 15 questions was conducted for the current business owners in the region. The purpose of this study was to provide positional visibility of positive or negative responses to survey questions of citizens in the field of urban renewal. These survey data collected from the field were statistically arranged and evaluated. The management and organization of location-based data is the subject of Geographic Information Systems (GIS). In addition, these data are provided to be visualized as a thematic map with the GIS method. In this context, when the doubts and reservations of the operators are eliminated, it has been observed that most of they prefer urban transformation in the region.	Urban Regeneration, GIS, Thematic Map, Survey
608	New Hardware Architectures for Montgomery Modular Multiplication Algorithm	"The acceleration of Internet applications and the transportation of many applications on the Internet has brought with it the issue of secure communication and information security.Providing great convenience and advantage, this situation has brought with it a variety of problems on the issue of secure communication and information security. Data encryption solutions have been produced against this situation.', 'It is aimed to provide four basic features of secure communication by encrypting data. These are Privacy, Data Integrity, Authentication, and Disapproval. The security of encrypted data depends on the power of the cryptography algorithm and the privacy of the keys used. The encryption algorithm is the mathematical function used to perform encryption and decryption.', 'An algorithm can be performed with both software and hardware components. Many algorithms also use a value known as ""key"" other than plain text to perform encryption and decryption.', 'In this study, cia and cla collectors were used together as an alternative instead of the CSA adder used in the Montgomery Modular Multiplication Algorithm and aimed to accelerate the process. As a result, the speed of operation took longer, especially in the addition process, as sum and carry used in csa operations could not be applied to other adders. In addition, the number of complement has increased."	CLA & CIA Adders, Montgomery Modular Multiplication, Public Key Cryptosystems
614	ANNUAL PLANNING OF ORE AND Pb, Zn, Ag METALS PRODUCTION IN “TREPÇA” MINE IN STANTËRG	Underground mines are known as mines of particular importance, for the production difficulties, production cost, safety factor and workforce number. Ore is mined from the depths of the underground with a preliminary justification on the amount of ore at the source, the quality of the ore and general reserves and then based on them the daily, monthly or annual production is planned. The geological rock stability in the specific case constitutes special importance in determining the underground mining method, dimensioning of the capital mine works and the selection of work machinery. The purpose of the production organization is to produce through mining activities the necessary products for the market (necessary material goods) in the amount and quality required by the market, at the time they are expected by the market and at a price acceptable by the market.	Mine, Machinery, Quality, Production
618	DISSOLUTION PROPERTIES OF A DOLOMITE CONTAINING ZINC ORE IN SODIUM HYDROXIDE SOLUTIONS	In this work, the dissolution properties of a dolomite containing zinc carbonate (smithsonite) ore sample having 24.22% ZnO were determined in sodium hydroxide solutions using X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), thermal (TG/DTA) and chemical analyses methods. It was observed that the dissolution efficiency value of zinc continuously increased with the increase of sodium hydroxide concentration from 1 to 4 M and the highest zinc dissolution efficiency of 70.7% was reached after dissolution in 4 M NaOH solution at temperature of 298 K. The XRD, FT-IR, TG/DTA and chemical analyses of undissolved solids obtained after dissolution of ore sample in 4 M NaOH solution at 298 K revealed that the smithsonite phase in the sample completely dissolved whereas the main gangue mineral dolomite remained practically unaffected, showing the selectivity of sodium hydroxide solution considering zinc dissolution. Although the smithsonite phase in the sample totally dissolved, hundred percent zinc dissolution efficiency could not be reached, which may indicate the presence of zinc in the gangue components, i.e. dolomite, clay minerals etc., of the studied ore sample.	Alkali liç, Dolomit, Sodyum hidroksit, Simitsonit, Çinko karbonat cevheri
624	EXTRACTION OF LANTHANUM AND CERIUM FROM A BASTNASITE ORE BY DIRECT ACIDIC LEACHING	"The extraction of lanthanum (La) and cerium (Ce) from a bastnasite ore by direct acidic leaching was investigated. The effects of acid concentration and leaching temperature on the extraction of La and Ce from the ore were tested. Using nitric (NHO3), more than 85% of the La and Ce were simultaneously extracted into leach solution whereas the La and Ce dissolutions were determined as less than 85% by using sulfuric acid (H2SO4). The La dissolution exceeded 90% by using hydrochloric acid (HCl); however, the Ce dissolution remained below 85% under the following conditions: solid-to-liquid ratio of 20% (w/v), the acid concentration of 20%, leaching temperature of 25 °C and leaching time of 1 h. The result revealed that HNO3 could be used as a solvent for the maximum simultaneous extraction of the La and Ce from the bastnasite ore. The leaching temperature had no crucial effect on the dissolution of La and Ce when HNO3 or HCl solutions were preferred as a solvating agent. However, the leaching temperature had a slight positive effect on the dissolutions of La and Ce when H2SO4 was used as a solvent."	Lanthanum, Cerium, Direct acidic leaching, Bastnasite ore
625	PREPARATION OF CEMENT GRINDING AIDS BASED ON ALUMINA COMPOUNDS	When the cement grinding is performed in the ball mill, the grinding efficiency decreases due to the aggregation of the particles by the electrostatic phenomenon. Therefore, a lot of techniques for preventing agglomeration using various grinding aids have been introduced. In this study, for mineral grinding, the grinding aid composition including a water-soluble aluminate compound and the grinding method in which this grinding aid is used were described. Grinding aids based on aluminate-based compounds not only have high grinding efficiency but are also thermally stable as they are inorganic materials. Compared with the conventional grinding aids based on organic materials such as DEG and TIPA, even if the solid content is half contained, the grinding efficiency is similar and thus the cost can be reduced to half.	Cement, Grinding aid, Alumina compound, Electrostatic
627	NON-REPEATED SUPPORT TECHNOLOGY OF GOB SIDE ENTRY RETAINING WITH ROOF CUTTING TO RELEASE PRESSURE	Temporary support of the gob side entry is of great significance to the safety mining. Taking the 1206 transportation tunnel of Shuguang Coal Mine as the engineering background, firstly, the key technical parameters of roof cutting to release pressure were given, the bolt and cable support parameters before entry retaining and the large deformation constant resistance cable reinforcement support parameters of retained entry were determined. Secondly, according to the overlying strata collapse patterns and mechanical model of gob side entry, the calculation formula of temporary support resistance in the dynamic pressure bearing area was derived. Finally, on the basis of determining the temporary support parameters, ZLQ2826/22.5/38 type of nonrepeated support and transportation equipment of alternating pressure cycles was developed, the main technical parameters and structural characteristics were analyzed, and a new type of fast and efficient non-repeated temporary support technology in the dynamic pressure bearing area was proposed. Field practice shows that the support parameters are reasonable, the support equipment and bolt support system have a good cooperative support effect, and the roof subsidence and roof separation have been effectively controlled. In the subsequent use process, the structure of support devices should be further optimized to improve the support effect.	Mining engineering, Gob side entry retaining, Dynamic pressure bearing area, Non-repeated temporary support, Entry support
629	Performance Evaluation of Distance Metrics on Fuzzy Clustering of Burn Images	The World Health Organization determined the annual number of deaths caused by burn is approximately 265,000. This number clearly reveals the importance of burn wound diagnosis. Determining the burn/normal skin region is the one of the most important parameters which are needed to be determined in the planning of burn wound treatment.', 'In this study, fuzzy clustering method have been used to determine the burn / normal skin. We selected 40 images, from the burn wound image dataset of the burn unit of the Karadeniz Technical University Faculty of Medicine Farabi Hospital. Although Euclidean distance is the most commonly used distance metric in image clustering methods, we examined the effects of different distance metrics on the clustering of burn wounds, in this study. We have evaluated the clustering performance of Euclidean, Mahattan, Jaccard, Cosine, Chebyshev, Minkowski distance metrics.We measured the performance of the distance metrics in terms of PBMF, Partition Coefficient, Cohesion and Separation validity indexes. As a result, we found that the Cosine distance metric gives the best result with 3 clusters.	Burn Images, Fuzzy C Means, Distance Measures
630	A Hyrid Genetic Algorithm Approach for Solving Partner Constrained Lane Covering Problems	Partner Constrained Lane Covering Problems (PCLCPs) are NP-Hard arc routing problems arising in collaborative truckload transportation procurement networks. The objective in these problems is to cover a set of full truckload shipment lanes of multiple shippers using cyles, each of which may include lanes from different shippers and empty truck movements, with minimum total cost such that each shipper does not share cycles with more than a prespecified number of partners. This paper presents a hybrid genetic algorithm (HGA) approach that combines genetic algorithm, local search and large neighborhood search approaches for solving PCLCPs. This approach is the first meta-heuristic that has been proposed for solving NP-Hard LCPs. The proposed MGA has been tested on instances that were previously used in the literature. It has improved the previous best known solutions of a significant portion of the large scale instances that were tested.	lane covering problem, arc routing, hybrid genetic algorithm
631	An inverse problem for the forced transverse vibration of a rectangular membrane with time dependent potential	In this paper, an initial-boundary value problem for a two-dimensional wave equation which arises in the equation of motion for the forced transverse vibration of a rectangular membrane is considered. Giving an additional condition, a time-dependent coefficient is determined and existence and uniqueness theorem for small times is proved. Moreover, characterization of the conditional stability is given and numerical solution of the inverse problem investigated by using finite difference method.	Inverse problem, Fourier method, Two dimensional wave equation, Finite difference method
632	Determination of Drying and Rehydration Kinetics of Red Capia Pepper (Capsicum Annuum l.), Energy Analysis of Drying Process	In this study, drying characteristics of the capia pepper  slices were investigated using a food drying oven. Prior to drying process of  the peppers, the peppers were pretreated with a mixture of hot NaOH solution  and olive oil /K', '2', 'CO', '3mixture. The pre-treated and non-pretreated pepper samples  were dried in the food drying oven at temperatures of 50 and 60 ° C. It was  observed that the applied pre-treatment and the increasement in the drying  temperature decreased the drying time and changed the rehydration capacity.  At 50?', 'C,  the effective diffusion coefficients of the chickens dried by pre-treatment  with NaOH and olive oil/K', '2', 'CO', '3', ' pretreatments were 1.62 ×  10', '-10', ', 3.24 × 10', '-10', ' and 8.11 × 10', '-10', ' m', '2', 's', '-1', ',  respectively. At 60?', 'C, they were calculated as 3.24 × 10', '-10', ', 4.87 ×  10', '-10', ' and 9.74 × 10', '-10', ' m', '2', 's', '-1', '  respectively. Activation energy values were calculated as 57.62, 33.88 and  15.23 kj, respectively. In addition, thermodynamic analyzes of drying  processes were carried out and cumulative consumed energy amounts were  determined for each drying temperature and the pretreatment applied.', '	Drying kinetics, rehydration capacity, capia pepper, thermodynamic analysis, effective diffusion coefficient
633	A Model Proposal for Determining Heavy Vehicle Parking Capacities in Rural Areas: A Case Study of Izmir	Effective planning of heavy vehicle parking areas is a significant factor in providing accessibility in urban and rural areas. Because of unplanned or unqualified planning of heavy vehicle parking areas, heavy vehicles park in undefined areas within the city instead of parking facilities. Such areas are freight-transported facilities, urban gaps, rural areas and most importantly trackside. Roadside parking of heavy vehicles in rural and urban areas causes many transportation problems. The aforementioned type of parking creates traffic safety and traffic capacity problems. Traffic accidents and congestion are increasing due to roadside parking on winding and fast roads between districts and villages in rural areas. At the same time, those parking movements slow down the traffic and reduce accessibility. While there are many studies on capacity and location selection of heavy vehicle parking areas in urban areas in the literature, methods for determining the capacity of heavy vehicle parking areas in rural areas are insufficient.In this study, the capacities of heavy vehicle parking areas in rural areas have been estimated under various assumptions by utilizing the data of the Izmir Sustainable Urban Logistics Plan- Logistic Analysis and Suggestions Report for Rural Development Regions. The non-transit heavy vehicle volumes in the districts were calculated from the traffic assignments made within the scope of the plan, while the rates of heavy vehicles in the districts, roadside parking rates and post-operative waiting times were also calculated using roadside driver surveys. With the generated approach, heavy vehicle parking requirements in rural areas defined within the scope of the mentioned plan were determined based on districts.	Rural area, Heavy vehicle, Parking, Izmir
634	Investigation of the Effect of Single-Walled Carbon Nanotube Reinforcement on Mechanical and Conductivity Properties of Sheet Molding Compound	In this study, the effect of single walled carbon nanotube reinforcement on mechanical and conductivity properties of unsaturated polyester-based sheet molding compound was investigated. Elasticity modulus, a measure of the stiffness of the material, was calculated from the slope in the elastic region of the tensile strength-elongation graphs obtained from tensile tests. It has been found that carbon nanotube additive increases the modulus of elasticity of standard sample by 18%, maximum tensile strength by 47% and toughness by 38%. The dc conductivity was also obtained for standard and carbon nanotube reinforced materials using current-voltage measurement. The results show that the addition of single-walled carbon nanotube significantly reduces the resistance of the material and increases the direct current conductivity by one million times. It is seen that the composite material, which is insulator, has increased from insulator to semiconductor level with the contribution of carbon nanotube.	Single walled carbon nanotube, Sheet molding compound, Elasticity modulus, Direct current conductivity
635	Production of real estate value maps with geographical information systems: The case of Çanakkale	"Value maps are used as active in real estate valuation. 87 structureless parcels of land qualified within the borders of Esenler Quarter of the Central district of Çanakkale province were identified. Firstly, fifteen factors affecting the land value were determined. Fifteen real estate appraisers participated in the survey which was prepared according to the analytical hierarchy process (AHP). Six questionnaires, whose consistency ratios are in the limit, were evaluated. As a result of the evaluation performed according to AHP, weights of factors were determined. The weights of the factors as a result of the survey; 16.7% total construction area, 15.0% utilization of public services, 13.4% island use in development, 9.0% earthquake condition, 8.9% soil condition, 8.5% slope, 5.9% parcel position within the island,% 4.7 parcel shape, 4.2% aspect, 3.3% view, 2.6% distance to main street, 2.5% distance to center, 1.9% distance to educational area, 1.7% distance to greenery 1.6% distance to the health area. Maps of each factor covering the study area were produced. The value map of the unstructured parcels in the study area was created. "	Real estate valuation, Value map, Geographic information systems, Analytic hierarchy process, Nominal valuation, Unstructured parcels
636	Crop classification using multi-temporal polarimetric SAR data	 This study evaluates the use of multi-temporal Polarimetric SAR (Polarimetric Synthetic Aperture Radar, PolSAR) images for crop classification. Multi-temporal polarimetric SAR images could be very advantageous for crop classification especially in time-critical agricultural projects. Within this research, three types of machine learning algorithms (light gradient boosting machines (LightGBM), random forest (RF) and support vector machines (SVM)) were utilized for the classification of five crops (maize, potato, wheat, sunflower, and alfalfa). From the multi-temporal PolSAR data, the original features (i.e. linear backscatter coefficients) of Radarsat-2 were extracted and incorporated into the classification step. The overall classification accuracies were obtained as 0.857 (±0.026), 0.855 (±0.033) and 0.834 (±0.039) for LightGBM, RF and SVM, respectively. The difference between the accuracies obtained by LightGBM and random forest (RF) was found to be statistically non-significant based upon the McNemar’s test. K-fold cross validation was used to assess the classification results. Furthermore, these results showed the added benefits of multi-temporal PolSAR data for crop classification. 	Polarimetric SAR, Classification, Remote sensing, Agriculture
637	Effects of CNG addition in a diesel engine using diesel/n-heptane, diesel/toluene as pilot fuel	The production processes of diesel engines have been interrupted due to the emissions restrictions that exist in the world. Because diesel engines have been proven to pollute the environment more than other types of engines. Therefore, efforts to reduce the emissions of diesel engines have gained momentum. At the beginning of these studies is the use of alternative fuels. Of these alternative fuels, the most important commercially available fuels are gas fuels. In gas fuels, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and compressed natural gas CNG have an important place. It is a known fact that there are some restrictions on the use of CNG in diesel engines. This study aimed to eliminate the negative effects of CNG, which is both an environmental and economical fuel, on the use of diesel engines. For this purpose, toluene and n-heptan were added to the diesel fuel used as pilot fuel by 2.5%, 5% and 10% by volume and given to each pilot fuel mixture from the CNG intake manifold equivalent to 20% and 40% of the liquid fuel consumed. Engine experiments with all fuel mixtures were repeated at 3000 rpm with 1 kW, 2 kW, 3 kW and 4 kW engine loads. With the addition of CNG to the N-heptan-doped pilot fuel, the brake specific fuel consumption and exhaust gas temperature increased, while the toluene fuel mixture increased fuel consumption andthe exhaust gas temperature decreased. In addition, increase in hydrocarbon (HC) and carbon monoxide (CO) emissions along with CNG addition were found to decrease in azotoxits (NOx) and soot emissions. with the addition of CNG to n-heptan added fuel, it was observed that there was an improvement in all engine emission values.	Diesel engine, CNG, n-heptane, toluene, engine performance
642	CONGO RED REMOVAL FROM AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS BY ADSORPTION ON PEANUT HULL	Congo red is one of the anionic diazo dyes and is widely used in the dying process for many industries. Industries such as textile, leather, paper, rubber, plastics and cosmetics are used the congo red dye. In this study, removal of congo red from aqueous solutions by adsorption on peanut hull was explored. The effects of several parameters like contact time, initial concentration, adsorbent amount, particle size and temperature were researched. A kinetic study was also performed. Adsorption rate increases up to 60mg/L initial concentration and then decreases. 60mg/L may be considered as an optimum initial concentration in the initial concentration range studied. The removal of congo red increases with increasing absorbent amount. The removal of congo red decreases with increasing adsorbent particle size and temperature as well. The adsorption equilibriums were reached at about 60min. Adsorption kinetics of congo red on the peanut hull followed by pseudo second - order kinetic model.	adsorpsiyon, congo red, kinetic, Peanut hull
643	AN APPLICATION OF THE METHOD OF WEIGHTED RESIDUALS TO THE BOUNDARY LAYER PROBLEMS	Falkner-Skan equation is a third order non-linear boundary value problem which describes the laminar boundary layer flow developing on a plate. The strong non-linear characteristics of the problem, sensitivity of the equation to the initial conditions and the semi-infinite domain of the problem have attracted many researchers.In this paper, the method of weighted residuals is used to solve Falkner-Skan equations. The residuals are minimized by the least squares approach. The procedure is very simple and suitable for solving boundary layer problems. The main aim of this paper is to demonstrate the success of the proposed method. We observe that even the simplest approach with only one unknown provide quite accurate results for the velocity profile in the boundary layer. Additionally, better results with any desired accuracy can be obtained by increasing the number of unknown coefficient. Moreover, this method provides analytical solutions which are valid for whole domain. 	Boundary Layer Problems, Falkner and Skan Equation, Method of Weighted Residuals, Least Squares Method, Nonlinear Differential Equations
645	EVALUATION OF CHALLENGES IN SOFA MANUFACTURING BY THE BAUA METHOD	The purpose of this study is to investigate the difficulties of furniture employees who will encounter muscle and skeletal strain during transportation horizontal and vertical parts of the furniture in our country and to draw attention to their effects among the employees. The current investigation was investigated to examine the strain limit values. It is for calculations for the difficulties in the musculoskeletal system you choose and the method developed by the German Federal Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Production in the furniture industry is based on machine park and manpower. In addition to carrying parts, the use of manpower in the furniture sector includes the process of giving parts to the machine, taking parts from the machine, lifting and lowering. The incompatibility of transportation and lifting works in this process against ergonomic conditions leads to occupational accidents and occupational diseases. Accordingly, there is a loss of workforce in the enterprise, production is disrupted, and operating cost costs increase. With the results of the research, furniture production is made, he thinks that work accidents and occupational diseases can be prevented. In this way, the working standard of furniture production facilities can be increased and productivity can be increased.	Working posture, Ergonomics, Ergonomics Analysis, Furniture manufacturing, BAUA
649	AN ANALYZE BY OWAS METHOD FOR THE WORKERS ABOUT THEIR WORKING CONDITIONS AT LPG FILLING STATION	The aim of this study is to draw attention to the faulty practice which is very common in the mounting of LPG conversion systems in our country and its effects on the employees. Liquid petroleum gas (LPG) is used as an alternative to gasoline in many vehicles in our country because it is more environment friendly and economical. Part of the system that allows the vehicle to work with autogas is the LPG filling unit. It is seen that the LPG filling port of many vehicles is mounted by preferring different places such as under, backside, right or left of the rear bumper. In fact, many faulty mounting practices with non-rigid or swinging connections are seen. These unsuitable LPG filling units, which are non-ergonomic, with various shapes and random locations, have negative effects on the health of the LPG filling station attendant working throughout the day. In addition, LPG filling station attendant need to look at the rear of the vehicle to be able to refill, which leads to a greater burden on the musculoskeletal system, new risks and reduced efficiency. In this study, the working posture of the LPG filling station attendant and the loading in the musculoskeletal system were analyzed by the Ovako Working Postures Analysing System (OWAS), a method based on observation.	Working posture, Ergonomics, Ergonomics Analysis, OWAS
651	PHYSICAL AND MENTAL WORK LOAD MEASUREMENT IN THE TIRE INDUSTRY USING OWAS AND NASA-TLX METHODS	Musculoskeletal health problems are an important issue that businesses should consider. The work related erroneous postures can cause strain and discomfort of the workers. At this point, Ovako Working Posture Analysing System (OWAS) method is used to analyze erroneous working postures. With this technique, body positions are defined and scoring is made according to difficulty level. Improvement suggestions are tried to eliminate problemsIn this article, OWAS and NASA-TLX methods are used to improve the working positions of the employees who make loading and unloading in a company producing tires for the automotive sector, which is called the strange working posture and accordingly mental workloads and non-ergonomic movements are determined. Actions to reduce or eliminate these difficulties have been proposed and put into practice.	Working posture analysis, Ergonomi, Automotive industry, OWAS, NASA-TLX
653	Optimization of Process Parameters in Drilling of Cast Iron Materials with Carbide Drills	There is a direct relationship between tool wear and part production cost efficiency. Wear on the tools is a main factor that directly affects the quality of production. In this study, the effect of different diameters of drill and cutting parameters on tool wear was investigated. 20 test repetitions were performed with 9 different combinations of tools with different diameters and different cutting parameters. The effects of parameters on tool wear were observed. Solid carbide tools with a diameter of 6.8 mm, 9 mm and 9.6 mm and cast iron materials of GG25 and GGG40 standard were used as work pieces in experimental studies. The design of the experiment was determined by Taguchi method and after each experiment, the wear conditions and types of drill bits were by using of a tool measurement and adjustment machine. It has been determined that GGG40 material causes more wear on the drill bit compared to the GG25 standard material and increases the amount of wear as the diameter of the drill bit increases.	Drill bit, Carbide tools, Tool wear, Wear types, Taguchi method
654	Determination of the Usage Performance of Different Flooring Materials Used on Pedestrian Roads	"This study includes research conducted with the impact strength test which is a new test method for determining the performances of the flooring materials used in the construction industry. In experiment studies, 4 different natural stone, concrete and asphalt materials were used, which are widely used in flooring. This study consists of 3 episodes; (1) Determining the values of materials of rapture energy and impact strength by using ball drop test equipment; (2) Calculating of breaking stress by using Griffith theory and (3) Statically analysis of variance (ANOVA) and classification ok K-average clustering method. By using statically K average clusture method and breaking potential index; rapture energy, impact strength and breaking stress of materials was determined by helping obtained data. Taking into account of the determined statistical analysis results of the materials, the rapture energy, impact strength and breaking stress have been classified and their performance in the areas of usage has been determined. As a result of the analysis, except for concrete samples in term of breaking potential, respectively; asphalt, granite, limestone, marble and basalt samples can be used as flooring materials."	Floor covering materials, Rapture energy, Impact strength, Fracture stress, Usage performance
655	Preparation of Activated Carbon from Natural Starch, its Characterization and Use as an Adsorbent	In this study, activated carbon was prepared from starch which is a natural substance by chemical activation method. Carbon spheres were obtained by hydrothermal carbonization of starch. Chemical activation process was carried out with NaOH at 800 oC. The effects of chemical activation on the structure and morphology of carbon spheres were evaluated using FT-IR, SEM and BET and zeta potential techniques. As a result of the activation process, the activated carbon having microporous (0,592 cm3/g) with high specific surface area (968 m2/g) was obtained. The potential of using activated carbon as an adsorbent for removal of congo red in water was investigated under several experimental conditions. Langmuir adsorption capacity of active carbon for congo red is 117,65 mg/g. Regeneration studies have shown that the activated carbon can also be used at least six times for the removal of congo red with no change in its adsorption capacity.	Hydrothermal carbonization, Activated carbon, Congo red, Adsorption
656	Fabrication and Characterization of CuO Nanostructures: Applications in Electrocatalytic Hydrogen Production	Hydrogen which is a renewable and sustainable form of energy to replace fossil fuels has been has been attracted great interest because of clean emission and high conversion efficiencies. To make water electrolyzer more profitable and economical, the selection of electrodes having low overpotentials, low- cost and stable with well electrocatalytic activity is required. In this study, CuO nanostructures were fabricated by chemical techniques. The morphologies and structures of CuO nanostructures were studied in detail by FE-SEM, BET, and XRD. Three different morphologies of CuO (Nanorod, nanoflake and nano-flower nanostructures) were synthesized. The contact angle measurements were carried out to state the surface properties of the synthesized materials. The cathodic polarization, open circuit potential-time measurements, impedance measurements and Mott-Schottky analysis were carried out in 1M KOH solution to determine the electrocatalytic performance of electrodes in hydrogen formation reaction. Besides, energy consumption efficiencies of electrodes for alkaline electrolysis were investigated.	CuO, Nanostructures, Hydrogen evolution, Energy requirement
657	Modeling of GaAs Type PV Energy Production Potential with Probability Distributions in the Ürgüp Region	Ürgüp is one of the major tourist attractions in Turkey. In the tourism sector, the use of photovoltaic systems is becoming widespread in order to meet the energy consumed in the units of the facilities such as ventilation, laundry and cold storage areas which attract high energy. In this sense, for the tourism facilities operating in the Ürgüp region, which is one of the important tourism points, and for investors who want to invest in this field, it is extremely important to determine the electricity generation potential of the region from photovoltaic panels. In this study, it is aimed to model photovoltaic electric energy potential based on probability density function approach with Weibull and Lognormal distributions by using solar radiation data of Ürgüp region.	Weibull distribution, Lognormal distribution, Solar radiation, GaAs Type PV
658	Engineering Properties of Fine-Grained Soil Stabilized with Different Waste Materials	The increment in world population leads to increase industrial waste materials. Utilization of industrial wastes as a stabilizing additive is a solution to reduce the negative impact of wastes on enviroment. The aim of this study is to determine variation of engineering properties of stabilized fine-grained soil with the use of fly ash, silica fume, blast furnace slag and glass dust. The soil was stabilized with using 10%, 20%, 30%, 40% and 50% waste contents of weight of dry soil. Test results showed that blast furnace slag is the most effective waste in terms of reduction of the plasticity index and increasing the undrained strength of soil. Furthermore, it was observed that linear shrinkage reduced with the increase in silica fume and blast furnace slag and glass dust content with %20 above.	Soil stabilization, Waste material, Fine-grained soil, Engineering properties
659	Flow Analysis of Two Consecutive Buildings at Different Distances	In the present paper, the effects of wind were calculated numerically in three dimensions for buildings placed in two consecutive different distances. ANSYS-FLUENT 14.0 program was used for numerical calculation. According to meteorological data for Sivas, the average wind speed was determined and. RNG k-? was used as the turbulence model. As a result of the calculations, it was seen that the flow structure and vortex areas around the rear building were affected by increasing the distance between the buildings. In addition, the highest positive pressure coefficients were observed on the front surfaces of the first building and negative pressure coefficients were observed on the B, C and D surfaces. In the rear building, only positive pressure was seen at the roof level, while negative pressure coefficients were obtained for all heights on all other surfaces.	Wind load, Building aerodynamic, Building pressure coefficient, CFD, Flow structure
660	Determining the Effect of Computational Grid Properties on Numerical Model Results	With the developing technology, computer software has started to be used frequently in solving complex engineering problems. Physical model experiments are carried out to test the accuracy of these software and the results are compared with the numerical model results. It is known that the properties of the grid structure, the turbulence model, the number of iterations and the step size have effects on the numerical model results. In the numerical modeling of the flow passing over the curvilinear broad-crested weir, solution grids with different geometrical features are designed. The basic equations are solved by ANSYS-Fluent package program based on finite volume method. In numerical calculations, the Renormalization Group k-? (RNG) turbulence model based on Reynolds Average Navier Stokes (RANS) equations and Volumes of Fluid (VOF) Method was used to determine the water-air intersection. The optimum solution grid type and size were determined by comparing the obtained numerical model results with the experimental results. In addition, numerical modeling has been done with different near wall treatment functions. It has been determined from the comparison of numerical velocity profiles obtained by using experimental and different grid structures, creating a very tight grid structure did not significantly improve the numerical model results.	Volume of fluid (VOF), Grid size, Near wall function, Numerical model
661	The Use of Montmorillonite, A Natural Coagulant, for The Treatment of Whey by Coagulation/Flocculation Method	In this study, chemical treatment of whey originating from dairy industry wastewaters by coagulation/flocculation method was aimed. The chemical treatment of whey was carried out with jar test experiments and optimum coagulant type and dosage were determined in the best pH range. Batch experiments were performed to investigate the effect of pH (4.0-8.5) and coagulant dose (0.25-2.0 g /L) on COD (chemical oxygen demand) removal efficiency. Iron sulfate, aluminum sulfate (alum) and clay (montmorillonit) were used as coagulants. Optimum dose of coagulant was 1.0 g/L and pH 7.0. For clay, alum + clay, iron sulphate + clay, 88%, 91% and 92% COD removal efficiency and 89%, 93% and 95% SS (suspended solid) removal efficiency were obtained respectively. In the chemical treatment experiments, it was concluded that montmorillionite can be used together with other coagulants for pre- treatment. However, since the discharge standards specified in the water pollution control regulation could not be met, it was determined that chemical treatment would only relieve the load of the next unit.	Coagulation/flocculation, Coagulant, Whey, Wastewater
662	Heat Conduction Analysis of Two-Dimensional Anisotropic Plate	The heat conduction of a two dimensional anisotropic plate with non-homogeneous general boundary conditions is solved by using ANSYS Fluent in the cartesian coordinate system. It is assumed that the thermal conductivity and heat generation of the material arbitrarily change in the direction of the two space variables. Under these conditions, a variable coefficient differential equation is obtained. Analytical solutions of such equations cannot be obtained except for some simple material functions. The variable coefficient differential equation, which includes the heat conduction coefficient and volumetric heat generation depending on the two space variables and non-homogeneous boundary conditions, is handled numerically by ANSYS Fluent user-defined function (UDF). The accuracy of the numerical method is demonstrated by comparing analytical and numerical solutions using simple material functions.	Anisotropic heat conduction, Analytical solution, Finite element method, UDF
663	Feeding Electricity Ring Grids with Minimum Interruption Using Fuzzy Logic Based Relay Coordination Scenarios Under Interruption Conditions	In order to secure continuous and high quality supply of electricity, it is essential to protect end users’ devices and network equipments against malfunction from production to consumption. Therefore, the protection of electrical equipment is essential and one of the devices performing the protection task is called the protection relay.Industrial plants and large consumers that possess a high variation in loads and variable generation resulting from the widespread implementation of distributed generation requires the adaptive operation of relays in protection systems to prevent undesired malfunctions.In this study, a novel fuzzy logic based adaptive relay coordination strategy with the advantages of reduced computational load and fast computing for distribution networks is proposed. In order to evaluate the performance of the developed relay coordination strategy, a real-world sample line for a ring-type distribution network has been simulated in PSCAD/EMTDC environment. The performance of the proposed system is validated with simulation results for different case studies.	Relay coordination, Fuzzy logic, Ring networks
664	Determination of the Optimal Energy Mix to Ensure Continuity in Renewable Energy Sources: an Application in the Kahramanmaraş Region	Renewable energy power plant (REPP) generations varies continuously depending on climatic conditions. This continuous change causes disruptive effects on the frequency-power balance of the grid. There are three different ways to mitigate these effects of REPP generation changes: Connecting grid systems, storing energy and using the temporal completion between energy sources. In this study, a more stable energy mix was obtained by using the temporal completion between three different renewable energy sources. The study was carried out for Kahramanmaraş province. Data were obtained from three different (REPP) (hydroelectric power plant (HEPP), solar power plant (SPP) and wind power plant (WPP) operated in the province to make the calculations more realistic. As a result of the calculations, optimum mix rates of investigated HEPP, SPP and WPP generations were obtained as 14%, 56% and 30% respectively. In Kahramanmaraş province, it is seen that if the plants are installed by taking these rates into consideration, production will become more stable. In this case, the disruptive effect of REPP generations on the frequency-power balance of traditional grid systems will also be reduced.	Optimal energy mix, Renewable energy resources, Energy generation stability
665	Pressure Influence on the Thermophysical Properties of 316L Austenitic Stainless Steels Manufactured By Powder Metallurgy Method	"Austenitic stainless steel that is used in the industrial areas such as automotive has high physical and mechanical properties. In this study; thermophysical properties of 316L austenitic stainless steel prepared by powder metallurgy method that is attracted for researchers due to obtain net or near shaped product and complex shaped materials, have been investigated. Austenitic stainless steels pressed on the 400 and 600MPa pressures and pressed austenitic stainless steel samples sintered at 1200 °C temperature for an hour under inert gas atmosphere. The thermophysical features o these sintered austenitic stainless steel were performed at temperature ranging from RT to 600 °C via heat flux type Differential Scanning Calorimeter (DSC). These properties supported by SEM images, EDS spectrums and OM (Optic microscope) images."	Specific heat capacity, Enthalpy, Austenitic stainless steel, Powder metallurgy
666	Failure Analysis of Low-density Polymer Foam Core Sandwich Structures under Three-point Bending Loading	In this study, low-density polymer foam core sandwich beams, non-existent in the literature, having woven carbon/epoxy face sheets in different core thicknesses and specimen lengths were fabricated and then subjected to three-point bending tests. The bending behavior of the sandwich beams were scrutinized experimentally. The effects of both core thickness and specimen length were revealed. As the ratio of face sheet to core decreases, transferring of shear forces between the face sheets decreases and the face sheets also become weaker. Hence, the failure mode changes from core shearing to indentation and the sandwiches have become tendency to fail by indentation. The theoretical models available in the literature was also utilized to predict the failure mode and collapse forces. The results indicated that both analytical calculations and experimental findings are compatible with each other.	Core shear, Failure mode, Indentation, Sandwich structures, Three-point bending
667	Assessment of Clay Brick, Hollow Brick and Roof Tile Provided from Assorted Construction and Demolition Waste in Geopolymerization	Researchers are in search of a new binding material because of the high CO2 emissions and consuming natural resources of cement industry. Alkali-activated materials and geopolymer are very popular recently. In this study, assorted construction and demolition wastes (CDW) were activated with 10 and 15 M NaOH solutions. CDW were used as binary combinations of roof tile, hollow brick and clay brick with percentages of 25% and 75% separately. Thus, both triple mix designs would be possible and not assorted CDW will be able to used through their own optimum activator and curing conditions. Specimens were cured at 95, 105, 115, 125 oC for 24, 48, 72 h and maximum compressive strength result was obtained by alkali-activation of 75% hollow brick and 25% clay brick mix cured at 115 oC for 72 h.	Alkali-activated materials, Geopolymer, Construction and demolition waste, High temperature curing, NaOH
669	Geochemical Properties of the Volcanic Rocks of Yüksekova Complex Around Gözebaşı Village (South of Elazığ)	"The study area is located in the Southeastern Anatolia Orogenic Belt, approximately 30 km south of Elazig Province. The rocks contain plagioclase, clinopyroxene, alkaline feldspar, olivine and opaque oxide minerals such as magnetite, ilmenite. Intergranular, glomeroporphyritic, hyalomicroporphyritic and amygdaloidal textures are common. Petrographic and geochemical characteristics of the rocks reflect basaltic composition and tholeiitic character. Considering to N-MORB normalized trace element distributions, the rock samples show LIL elements variations, but they show enrichments in large ion lithophile elements (LILE) relative to high field strength elements (HFSE). The rare earth element distributions of the samples exhibit a flat pattern. As a result; all geochemical data point that the contribution of subducted oceanic crust in development of the magma forming volcanic rocks around Gözebaşı village (Elazığ South)."	Gözebaşı (South of Elazığ), Yüksekova complex, Geochemistry
670	A Data Integration Application for Occupational Health and Safety Management in the Mining Industry	Mining is an industry that covers various engineering disciplines and the related risks to them in terms of occupational health and safety. Recent technological improvements in available hardware and software solutions led the mining industry to be able to collect data related to productivity, machine maintenance, costs, environmental conditions, and most importantly, occupational health and safety. This study introduces a data integration application for analyzing safety related records by using multiple data sources. The case study presented in the study revealed that the unsafe events related to machine health could be analyzed for different operator crews based on haulage type. It is observed that the beginning of a shift is a potential duration where occupational health and safety related events occur. Patterns within data by visual interpretation have limited analytics capability and can become overwhelmingly complex, even with info-graphics and modern graphic tools. It is suggested to follow a systematic methodology such as data mining to find patterns for the causes of specific events.	Surface mining, Data warehouse, Data integration, Occupational health and safety
671	Investigation of Holocene Activity of the Yumurtalık Fault (Ceyhan-Adana)	In this study, seismic activity of the Yumurtalık Fault, passes through the north of the İskenderun Bay was investigated. The determination of the Yumurtalık Fault’s earthquake potential is essential because the region is very important in terms of industry, agriculture and settlement. And also, it has made significant contributions to determine the seismicity of the Eastern Anatolian Fault (EAF) since it forms the southwestern part of the EAF. Paleoseismic trenches were excavated on the Yumurtalık Fault and data obtained from the trenchs revealed at least three earthquakes resulting in surface rupture on the fault. When the seismic records of the earthquake are examined, several earthquakes of M = 4 and above are reported. Using fault parameters such as length and fault character, it is expected that the greatest earthquake can occur on the Yumurtalık Fault is 6.9. The Holocone activity of the Yumurtalık Fault is clearly defined and it has been observed that it works in a mechanisim meeting the neotectonic processes of the region.This study will contribute to the evaluation of the earthquake hazard in the areas where the Yumurtalık Fault crosses.	Yumurtalık Fault, Paleoseismology, Seismicity, Active tectonic
672	Simulation of LiBr-Water Absorption Refrigeration Cycle Cooling Performance at Various Conditions	Absorption cooling systems are one of the most preferred systems due to their negligible environmental impact, low noise, and vibration. These systems without mechanical compressors only contain pumps as moving parts. Nowadays, it is especially preferred for obtaining cooling by using low grade waste heat. They are widely used in high capacity air conditioning systems. Such cooling systems are used to utilize the gas turbine waste heat. LiBr-Water systems are preferred due to their acceptable coefficient of performance at low temperatures. In this study, all points of the LiBr-Water absorption cooling cycle calculation are determined and cooling performance at various conditions is carried out. Cooling performance is calculated for a 50 kW system as a function of cooling water temperature, heating water temperature and cooled water temperature. It is observed that cooling performance of the system increases with the temperature of the heating water and the water to be cooled, but decreases with the cooling water temperature. In addition, heat exchangers in the system are also analyzed.	Waste heat, Refrigeration, LiBr-Water solution, Absorption coolin
673	Non-linear Control of Inverted Pendulum	Presented is a study of non-linear control for an inverted pendulum system. The inverted pendulum system is a great example of an underactuated, non-minimum phase, and highly unstable system. The objective of this research paper is to derive non-linear control laws for an inverted pendulum system. First, dynamic equations of the inverted pendulum are derived by utilizing the Lagrange's equations and then it is linearized around an unstable upright position. Secondly, the corresponding analysis uses the standard linear stability arguments and the traditional Lyapunov method. The non-linear sliding mode control and feedback linearization control laws are then derived The feedback linearization control law is used to transform the non-linear system into an equivalent linear system such that a suitable feedback control law can be proposed. The stabilization of the initial condition and reference tracking is studied in this paper. I demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed non-linear control strategies using MATLAB/Simulink software.	Non-linear control, Inverted pendulum system, Sliding mode control, feedback linearization
674	Effect of Electrolyte Components on Electrodeposited Nanocomposite Coatings	In this study, nickel-based alloy and nanocomposite coatings were produced on a stainless steel base with the electrochemical deposition method. Ni-B alloy coating was obtained by adding trimethylamine borane (TMAB) as a boron source to the Watts type nickel bath, and in addition, titanium diboride (TiB2) ceramic nanoparticles were added to the bath in order to obtain a nanocomposite coating. In order to examine the effects of electrolyte components on coating properties, analyzes were carried out in terms of electrochemical, microhardness, corrosion resistance and surface morphology. As a result of the examinations, it was seen that each bath component has a serious effect on the coating properties such as morphology, hardness and corrosion resistance. In general, although surface morphologies were smooth, it was understood from the optical images that the surface of the nanocomposite coating was more coarser. While the addition of boron element to the main structure increased the microhardness by about 38%, with the TiB2 supplement, it caused 140% improvement over pure nickel and 75% improvement over Ni-B alloy. While boron reinforcement reduced corrosion resistance, TiB2 reinforcement caused an increase in corrosion resistance.	Electrodeposition, Nanocomposite coatings, Ni-B alloys, Electrochemical coatings
675	Improvement of Fractal Antenna Parameters with Metamaterial	In this study, a fractal antenna operating at 5.47 GHz has been designed and it is aimed to improve the directivity, gain and efficiency of this antenna by using Metamaterials. With the help of a FIT-based simulation program, a fractal antenna consisting of circular shapes with a fixed ratio of 0.65 between each circle is designed. The MTM structure, which is composed of 2x4 unit cell rhombus structures, each of 38 mm x 38 mm, is designed in the same simulation program. Using the S11 and S21 parameter values obtained from the simulation of MTM structures, effective dielectric constant, effective magnetic permeability and refractive index of the structure are calculated and these values are found to be negative. While the S11 value of the fractal antenna without MTM is -16.973 dB at 5.47 GHz, it has decreased to -25.908 dB with 2 MTM structures. In addition, the antenna’s directivity has increased from 6.65 dBi to 9.67 dBi and its gain has increased from 1.19 dB to 5.99 dB. Fractal antenna and MTM structure are fabricated, different numbers of MTM structure have been mounted on antenna at 90 degrees and measurement results are obtained. Measurement results and simulation results are compared and it is seen that the simulation results and the measurement results are in good agreement with each other.	Metamaterial, Fractal antenna, Miniaturization, Ultra-wide band
676	Effect of the Components of a Vehicle on a MEMS Magnetometer Sensor Output	Precise vehicle heading information is of great importance for many Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) applications. GPS-based localization and heading estimation is widely used in almost every transportation systems. However, dense urban environment causes inconsistency in the reception of the GPS signals. Given the diverse sensors within mobile devices, i.e., Microelectromechanical System (MEMS) sensors such as gyroscope, accelerometer, magnetometer etc., they have a strong potential for sensing vehicle dynamics and can promote a broad range of applications associated with heading estimation. A magnetometer sensor of a smart mobile device can be utilized to obtain accurate vehicle heading estimation. However, ferromagnetic components of a vehicle significantly deforms the magnetic field measured by magnetometer sensor. In this study, it is demonstrated that an accurate vehicle heading estimation can numerically be achieved through identifying error parameters. These parameters were then transformed into a mathematical model and contributing errors were eliminated from raw sensor output. Simulation results show that the model produces a maximum error of 3.4%.	Vehicle heading estimation, Magnetometer, Ferromagnetic object, MEMS sensor, Intelligent transportation systems
677	Effect of Boundary Conditions on Natural Frequencies of Orthotropic- Cored Composite Sandwich Beams	The influences of different boundary conditions on the free vibration behavior of sandwich beams having an orthotropic core have been investigated. The finite element codes used in the analysis are written via MATLAB and infused into ANSYS software package. The two-dimensional beam is considered to be made of an orthotropic core and two isotropic face sheets which may be homogeneous or heterogenous. The longitudinal dominated natural frequencies are considered and effects of core and face-sheet materials on the natural frequency are also studied. The results show that the order of the natural frequencies from highest to lowest, respectively, is clamped-clamped, clamped-simply supported, simply supported-simply supported and clamped-free for the orthotropic core composite beam. Also, using Al-TiB2 instead of pure Al layer as well as the increasing the inhomogeneity index decreases the natural frequency.	Vibration, Natural frequency, Boundary conditions, Composites beams, Orthotropy
678	Geotechnical Measurement and Evaluation of Measurement Data in Slope Structures (Şişli-İstanbul)	This study included the geotechnical measurements used throughout the deep foundation excavation of a multi-storey building located on Şişli district, Cumhuriyet District, 144 map, 994 Island and 14 plat in Istanbul. The purpose of the study is to identify possible extreme slope movements before reaching serious dimensions using geotechnical measuring instruments with different measuring disciplines together in the controlled continuation of deep foundation excavation works. The information about the soil before excavation was obtained with drilling within the scope of the project. Hence, the necessary geotechnical measurement tools for safe excavation were determined according to the information obtained. The study area divided into cross sections starting with E1 and ending with E14 considering the slope surfaces that may occur before the excavation works start. It was planned to place the geotechnical measurement tools onto each divided sections considering the width and excavation depth. The excavation depts were greatest for E1, E2 and E3 cross sections. Initially, the excavations have started along these sections accepted as critical ones. In order to determine the horizontal displacements that may occur on the ground during the excavation, inclinometer pipes have been placed for sections including the back of the slope and the back of the pile considering the construction approach limit. The pipes were with a depth of 52 m to 48 m for E1 cross section, 47.5 m and 39 m for E2 cross section, and 42 m and 35 m for E3 cross ection. The inclinometer measurements showed that the maximum displacement measures observed were 48 mm for E1, 55 mm for E2 and 27.5 mm for E3. Retaining systems were used to ensure the slope stability through the study. Load increases in the retaining systems were measured using load cells a capacity of 100 tons for each one and a total number of 39 placed in every 3 meters for each three sections. The greatest increase was measured as 12.45kN (1.245ton) in cross section E2. In order to measure the horizontal mobility, measurements were made by placing 14 extensometers in cross sections E1, E2 and E3. The largest displacement measured was observed as 4mm in the E2 section. This measured value did not pose a risk for the section. In order to measure the vertical displacements, a multisensor magnetic settlement column was placed in three cross sections and measurements were taken. No serious settlement was observed as a result of the measurements. The mass movement which could pose a risk during the excavation work was observed in cross sections E4 and E5. A serious displacement in the direction of excavation was detected in these sections that the depth of excavation varies between 15.2 and 9.4. The main reason for the movement has been determined as the inability of the support systems in the weathered units to adhesion to the soil. The maximum displacements were measured as 30 mm in the E4 cross section and 21.5mm in the E5 cross section. Load increases according to the load cell measurement values placed in the sections were measured as 26.38 kN (2.638 tons) in the E4 cross section and 23.13kN (2.313 tons) in the E5 cross section. Taking into consideration the excessive displacements detected, the support amount is strengthened in these sections and the amount of movement is taken under control.	Geotechnical measurement, Instrumental monitoring, Slope excavations, İstanbul, Şişli
691	Determination of Thermophysical Properties of Nanofluids containing CuO and ZnO and Modeling with Artificial Neural Network	While the demand for energy, which is a necessary factor for the daily vital cycle, is constantly increasing, energy resources are rapidly exhausted. In this respect, it is of great importance to revise existing energy conversion systems and to develop new methods in order to benefit from the limited energy resources. Nowadays it is important to use the energy more efficiently by increasing the heat transfer in the in-pipe flows. In this study, heat transfer coefficients (k) and heat transfer coefficients (h) were determined by passing nanofluids produced using pure water, ethanol and ethylene glycol materials together with CuO and ZnO nanoparticles. In the experimental measurements with the Reynolds number around 1600, the average heat transfer was 16.5% in ZnO and 13.3% in CuO compared to pure water. The relationship between different pH values and Reynolds number values of heat transfer coefficients of nanofluids were shown. For h values of CuO and ZnO based nanofluids, predictive models were created by using artificial neural network. The accuracy rate of the obtained models was compared. The predictive model of CuO-based nanofluids was shown to be 40% more successful than ZnO.	Nanoparticle, nanofluids, thermophysical properties, artificial neural network
697	Determination of the influence of the machining parameters on the tensile load in CFRPs by analysis of variance	By the increasing use of carbon fiber reinforced composites (CFRP) materials have started to increase the interest in CFRP materials.', 'However, it also has cause problem of machining of CFRP.', 'The most common method used in machining of CFRP is drilling.', 'But some problems occur such as deformation, poor surface quality, and matrix burning in the drilling of CFRP.', 'These problems cause the CFRP to be damaged more quickly or to become waste. In this study, the effects of drilling conditions of CFRP materials that have a 0/90° fiber orientation angle which subjected to tensile loads were investigated. At firstly, CFRP materials were drilled at spindle speeds of 1000, 3000 and 5000 rpm and feed rates of 0.05, 0.10 and 0.15 mm/rev with HSS, Wc and Brad Spurr tool types.', 'Then, the variance analyses (ANOVA) was applied to determinate the rate of drilling parameters, tool type and material.', 'effects on cutting force, deformation factor, surface roughness, and tensile load. As a result of the study, it was seen that the most effective parameter on cutting force, surface roughness, deformation, and the tensile load was tool type. However, it was also determined that the optimum parameters were WC tool type, the feed rate of 0.05 mm/rev and the spindle speed of 5000 rpm. In addition, the tensile load of CFRP was obtained 19% higher in optimum drilling parameters.	"Analysis of Variance; CFRP; Cutting Force; Deformation Factor; Surface roughness; Tensile load."
699	Radio Frequency Energy Harvesting with Phase Shift Keying Modulation Technique	In this study, impacts of phase shift keying modulation technique on charging times of an RF energy harvesting circuit were measured and evaluated in detail. A measurement system was established for receiving and recording measurement packets. The measurement system was performed by utilizing a signal generator, an RF energy harvesting circuit, patch antennas and the other auxiliary devices. Output power level of the signal generator was adjusted to 14 dBm. The modulated signals were harvested wirelessly at distances from 20 cm to 50 cm at the interval of 5 cm by the RF energy harvesting circuit. For each distance, 100 consecutive measurement packets were obtained and hence, totally 700 measurement packets were analyzed for charging times. According to the measurement results, the shortest charging time was calculated as 7.97 s at a distance of 20 cm. In addition to that, the longest charging time was evaluated as 48.88 s at a distance of 50 cm for the phase shift keying modulated signals.	radio frequency, energy harvesting, measurement, modulation, phase shift keying
700	The Effect of Different Current Conditions On Mechanical Properties of Reactive Powder Concrete	In this study, the development of warm water curing method and the effect of this curing method on the mechanical properties of Reactive powder concrete (RPC) has been investigated. For this reason, in our study, water cure was applied at different temperatures, i.e. 50, 70, 90 ° C and autoclave curing method for comparison. The compressive strengths obtained for samples with steel fiber and for non-fiber samples cured at 90°C water were respectively 153.18 and 134.01 MPa. These values were 0.917 and 0.912, respectively, while compared to the compressive strengths of samples cured in autoclave conditions. It is understood that the warm water curing method can be used as an alternative to the autoclave curing method. Because the ratio is so high and this method is more economic than autoclave curing method.	RPC, compressive strength, sustainable concrete
707	Customer Satisfaction Analysis Using Artificial Neural Network	One of the most important curiosity issues in today's technologies has been to predict the future. Many studies have focused on machine learning, but in nonlinear cases, classical machine learning methods are not enough. Artificial neural networks have entered our lives as a system that allows us to make predictions based on the available data. All organizations working for the customers need to learn the satisfaction of their customers in order to gain more customers and keep their existing customers. A linear equation cannot be created for this satisfaction, since not only objective data but also human emotions can be introduced. By analyzing the data well, it is necessary to make the right decisions for new future customers and increase their permanence. Classical machine learning is inadequate in this kind of practice, but automatically trained neural networks that include non-linear components can give results having high accuracies. Non-linear equations are established by means of artificial neural networks and it is aimed to make the best estimates. In recent years, comparisons and studies have shown that artificial neural networks give better results in nonlinear cases compared to classical machine learning methods. This study shows that better results can be obtained if satisfaction analysis are conducted on customers using deep learning methods. In this paper, situations encountered in this application which is using an artificial	ANN, Artificial Neural Network, Customer Satisfaction
713	Neutron and Ion Production with Various Applied Voltages in Spherical Plasma Focus	In this work, the applied voltage effect on neutron yield and ion production are studied by varying the charging voltage between 15 kV and 30 kV with 1 kV increment to investigate neutron yield, radiation emissions and ion properties using the developed MHD model. While Joule heating, radiative recombination, bremsstrahlung and line radiation are calculated as radiation terms, beam-ion speed, energy and density are calculated as ion properties. The dominant neutron production mechanism is beam-target which results from the accelerated energetic ions under the diode voltage which is calculated along with neutron yield. In this study, while maximum neutron yield is 2.63 10^13 for 30 kV charging voltage, beam-ion energy and speed reach 61 keV and 240 cm/µs, respectively.	Ion, neutron, plasma focus, radiation, voltage
719	2D MATERIALS COATED BY AUTOMATED DIPPING SYSTEM	Inorganic nanosheets, members of the two-dimensional (2D) materials family, have one or several atomic thickness and they are obtained by chemical exfoliation of bulk layered oxide materials. In this study, automated dipping system was designed and manufactured to apply layer-by-layer method for fabrication of nanofilms composed by nanosheets. The performance of the system for nanofilm productions was determined using Nb6O17 nanosheets. Therefore, layered inorganic K4Nb6O17·3H2O material was exfoliated to yield Nb6O17 nanosheets having thickness around 2 nm. Negatively charged Nb6O17 nanosheets and positively charged polydiallyldimethylammonium chloride (PDDA) were alternately deposited layer-by-layer method onto quartz substrates using automated dipping system. An atomic force microscopy (AFM) image visualized 5 deposition cycles of Nb6O17/ PDDA pair with an effective coverage of the surface. Moreover, absorption spectra were recorded for various increasing deposition cycles of Nb6O17/ PDDA pair. The increase in the absorbance value obtained with the system was qualitatively similar to the increase in the absorbance ratio obtained in the manual coating results reported in the literature. It is shown that the low cost coating system proposed in this study can be used in nanofilm fabrication.	Nanofilm, Nanosheet, Exfoliation, Layer-by-Layer Method, Automated Dipping System
720	ELECTRIC GROUND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT USE IN CIVIL AVIATION: ADVANTAGES, LIMITATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS	In addition to its high growth rates, the aviation sector strives to reduce emissions that cause environmental and health problems and reduce fuel and operating costs. The use of electrical energy in the propulsion systems in the common denominator of these efforts is increasingly interesting. On the other hand, as a result of the approach of the authorities in the use of electric vehicles, electric alternatives of ground handling equipment, which is one of the important elements of the aviation ecosystem, have come into the agenda. In this research, the benefits of electrical equipment used in ground services, along with the limitations and suggestions on the subject have been put forward. The research was conducted qualitatively and secondary data were used. In the study, the results of the experience and modeling studies obtained from the application studies in this field have been analyzed and the general trend in this field has been put forward. Current electric ground handling equipment utilization rates of one of the leading companies in our country have been evaluated. It is seen that the use of electrical ground services equipment in Turkey is at the average of the countries examined. As a result of the study, necessary conditions have been determined and recommendations have been established for the widespread use of electrical ground services equipment.	Sustainable Aviation, Ground Support Equipment, Emission, Electric Ground Support Equipment
721	LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP ALGORITHM FOR LAYER MODULI ESTIMATION OF FULL-DEPTH ASPHALT PAVEMENTS	"This study proposes a backcalculation tool, based on the hybrid use of League Championship Algorithm (LCA) and Artificial Neural Network (ANN), in order to predict the stiffness related layer properties of full-depth asphalt pavements. The proposed algorithm, namely LCA-ANN, is composed of two main parts; (i) an ANN forward response model, which is developed with the nonlinear finite element solution, for computing the surface deflections, and (ii) LCA search algorithm which is employed to search and provide the best set of layer moduli to the ANN model. In order to evaluate the performance of the proposed method, a synthetically generated dataset and real field data are utilized. Moreover, to assess the searching ability of LCA, well-accepted metaheuristic algorithms; Simple Genetic Algorithm (SGA) and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) are employed for comparison purposes. Obtained results reveal that the proposed algorithm can predict the layer properties with a low order of error values and enables fast and reliable tool for backcalculation studies."	Flexible Pavements, Backcalculation, League Championship Algorithm, Artificial Neural Network
724	Preliminary Study of Determination of Classroom Lighting Performance and Led Luminaire Application Energy Saving Potential	Evaluation of the lighting need in terms of comfort, health, safety and quality of life reveals the existence of a lighting system and need specific to different ambient conditions. The level of illumination of the training areas is determined within the scope of international standards. In addition to enlightenment, energy and its costs, which are among the important issues of today, are the subject of many research, development and application studies in order to meet the need for optimum lighting with minimum energy. Within the scope of this study, the illumination level provided by the existing tube fluorescent luminaire was measured in 10 classrooms in an educational institution and the illumination level was determined to be above 300 lux level specified in the standards. Although the lighting level is enough, it is evaluated that the required lighting level can be saved by changing the existing luminaires with led luminaires. With the change to be realized, 8161.56 kWh energy saving provision is determined as 3388.68 TL. It is considered that the existing luminaires can be replaced with an investment of 19500TL and the payback period is 5.75 years. 	Led luminaire, energy saving, lightning
726	Investigation of the Moisture Content Effect on Dielectric Parameters in Peach and Quince Leaves	Today, in the agricultural sector, the use of remote sensing and automation systems is increased to increase the yield and quality of the product. One of the main determinant parameters in the technologies used in microwave heating/drying and remote monitoring/control an application is the dielectric properties of plants. Therefore, it is important to determine the dielectric characteristics of plant materials for proper operation of the systems to be used in these applications. In this study, dielectric parameters of the peach and quince leaves produced in Isparta region are measured by Waveguide Transmission Line Method. Measurements are conducted between 3.30-4.90 GHz (for WR229 waveguide) and the dielectric characteristics of the leaves are examined depending on the moisture content and frequency. A new model with a curve fitting method based on frequency and moisture content (MC) is proposed used dielectric measurement data of peach leaves. This model is compared with the dielectric measurement results of quince leaves which belong to the same family with peach type to see the accuracy of the proposed model is tested. To obtain the performance of the model, the coefficient of determination R', '2', ' and Mean Square Root of Errors (RMSE) are obtained as 0.995 and 0.755, respectively.	Dielectric measurement, remote sensing, moisture content, peach leaf, quince leaf
730	Design and Control of SynRM Fed by Photovoltaic Panel	SynRMs have many advantages such as robust and simple construction, low cost production, high torque capability, per unit volume, field weakening capability, reduced power losses due to lack the of the rotor windings. Therefore, these motors have become interesting for many industrial and automotive applications. In this paper, it is aimed that design of the synchronous reluctance motor (SynRM) which can operate with low voltage level produced by photovoltaic (PV) panels. It is very difficult to produce high torque with a low voltage. For this reason, SynRM was designed as having a good dynamic, high starting torque and high efficiency. The MTPA control algorithm was used in order to obtain maximum torque per current from the motor in the motor drive. Additionally, Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) algorithm was used to obtain maximum power from the panels. This algorithm has automatically adjusted the speed-reference information of the motor and provided operating at the maximum efficiency of the system. Thus, a system having more efficient, more compact and ease of use was obtained in this paper.	Renewable Energy, AC Motor Drive, Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT), Synchronous Reluctance Motor (SynRM)
733	Classification of Flower Species by Using Feature Selection Methods in Convolutional Neural Network Models	The fact that image processing methods and techniques give better results every day is important for the sensitivity of ecological balance. This article deals with the classification of plant species, which is the main element of the ecological balance. Recently, the use of deep learning methods on plant species has increased. Another aim of our study is to create a reference for comparing the image data used in this field to other studies which will use the same data set. In this study, five-class plant images that are accessible for the classification of plant species were utilized. The data set consists of 4242 images. In the data set, the convolutional neural network (CNN) from deep learning models was used for feature extraction. The features obtained from plant species were classified by support vector machines (SVM) and the results obtained were compared. As a result of the comparison, the best classification performance was provided by VGG-16 architecture. The obtained classification accuracy rate is 86.56%. In the next phase, the number of properties of the last layer of CNN architectures was reduced by using the Maximal Information Coefficient (MIC), Ridge Regression and Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE). The most efficient features derived from feature selection methods were re-classified with SVM. The classification success rate increased by 5.24% and became 91.10%. In this study, it was observed that the use of feature selection methods together with CNN architectures were effective in the classification of flower species.	CNN, deep learning, image processing, feature selection, flower types
735	Evaluation of the Performance of Modified Surface Dressing with Environmental Waste in the Context of Aggregate-Bitumen Relationship	"Road pavements are produced in the form of Bituminous Hot Mix Asphalt (HMA) or surface dressing in general. In this study, the aggregate-bitumen relationship of surface dressing, which is preferred more due to its low cost, was investigated. Surface dressing cost is much lower than HMA. Therefore, it is used more than the HMA. Surface dressing is more affected by climatic changes. However, surface dressing manufactured with suitable designs can serve during their service life. In experimental studies, aggregate, bitumen and mixture test results were evaluated together. Limestone and basalt aggregates were used as the aggregates. As the bitumens; 50/70 and 70/100 penetration grade bitumens, as an additive; 10% waste rubber and 1% PVC are used in the experiments. Peeling resistance and adhesion (Vialit plate) tests were applied to measure the performance. According to the experimental results; in the adhesion (Vialit) tests, the performance of limestone samples was found to be better than basalt samples. 50/70 penetration grade bitumen provides better adhesion with limestone aggregates, while 70/100 bitumen provides better adhesion in basalt aggregates. Waste rubber and PVC fibers increase adhesion strength between aggregate and bitumen. In addition, the wastes used as additives revel a good performance when the limestone is used as an aggregate. Waste rubber and PVC fibers increase the adhesion strength which is low in basalt aggregates especially. In 70/100 penetration grade bitumen, the homogeneous dispersion of the wastes as the additives is facilitated due to the consistency of the bitumen, thus increasing the adhesion strength can be easily observed. In the context of peeling strength, limestone aggregates and the bitumen modified by the waste rubber provided the best performance."	Surface dressing, recycling, peeling resistance, adhesion test, sustainable transport
742	150/5000 Analysis of Big Data Containing Terror Attacks by Machine Learning Techniques and Comparison of Algorithms in Prediction of Terrorist Organization	This type of information gathered from various news sources, internationally trusted news agencies, and the terror information collected between 1970 and 2017, and discussed the data set called Global Terrorism Database (GTD) with PGIS. Analysis and classification decision of terrorist incidents by using big data technology techniques by applying algorithms to classify machine learning methods to terrorist data datasets, large data processing tool which predicts which terrorist group is performed by a terrorist event is made here. In the event of a terrorist attack, the type of attack, country, region, target audience and type of weapons to capture such information is estimated to seize. Apache Spark framework and Python programming language for the development of big data tool. Classification algorithms from several different machine learning methods were applied to the top 10 terrorist organizations that carried out the most attacks from the GTD dataset. Performance among these algorithms was shown. The algorithms applied are for the highest value with 98.2% of the K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) algorithm as the highest accuracy rate of sorting. The logistic regression (LR) algorithm was specified according to the situation appropriate for the big data set.	Big data, Apache spark, machine learning
748	ZEOLITE SYNTHESIS BY ALKALI FUSION METHOD USING TWO DIFFERENT FLY ASHES DERIVED FROM TURKISH THERMAL POWER PLANTS	In this study, Faujasite (Na-LSX) (3.5(Ca0.3)3.5(Na0.6)3.5(Mg0.1)Al7Si17O48•32(H2O)) type zeolites and Ca-Filipsite (CaK0.6Na0.4Si5.2Al2.8O16•6(H2O)) type zeolites were produced from Sugözü Thermal Power Plant and Çatalağzı Thermal Power Plant fly ashes by alkali fusion method followed by water leaching, respectively. In these methods, fly ashes and sodium hydroxide (NaOH) were mixed in certain proportions and sintered at 600 °C in ash furnace. Then, zeolites were obtained from the ground materials after water leaching and solid/liquid separation, respectively. Cation Exchange Capacity (CEC), X-Ray Diffraction (XRD), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Fourier-Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), X-Ray Fluorescence (XRF) and Atomic Absorption Spectrometer (AAS) analyses were used to characterize the synthesized zeolites. The zeolites synthesized with Sugözü fly ashes in a ratio of 1:2 had 136.93 meq/100 g CEC, whereas the CEC of synthesized zeolite from Çatalağzı fly ashes was found to be 247.88 meq/100 g. As a result, zeolites, which can be used as wastewater treatment agent, energy storage material, catalyst and separator, were synthesized by using 2 different Class F fly ash.	Zeolite, Faujasite, Na-LSX, Phillipsite, Synthesis
751	Analysis of the Dam Monitoring Studies Conducted with Geodetic Methods	Dams with high construction costs are subject to deformation due to internal and external factors, such as self-weight, temperature changes, the force of the reservoir water. The effects of these factors on structural behavior should be monitored and, if necessary, precautions must be taken. To serve the purpose of their establishment in a beneficial way, dams should be monitored periodically by geodetic or geotechnical methods. In this study, the studies on dam deformation monitoring with geodetic methods in the world and in Turkey were evaluated. Within the scope of the study, robotic total station and GNSS, terrestrial laser scanner samples were given. The aim of this study is to provide a summary of the current solutions and future tendencies to the people working on the investigation of the deformations in the dams by geodetic methods.	Dams, Geodetic monitoring, Deformation analysis, GNSS
752	SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT TOOLS AS DECISION SUPPORT IN BUILDING DESIGN	Nowadays environmental performance has become an important criterion in building design with the acknowledgement of negative environmental impacts of buildings. What is expected from the environmental performance of a building is that the resource consumption associated with building processes and the effects of this consumption on people and the environment are minimized, while the total building quality and life quality are maximized. At the point reached today, in order for the environmental performance of a building to be sustainable, it is necessary to make the most appropriate design decisions in the design process in terms of environment and human and to evaluate these decisions on the basis of relevant sustainability targets. In this context, Building Sustainability Assessment Tools (BSAT) have gained importance as the tools have been used in determining the environmental performance of the building qualitatively and/or quantitatively and in establishing how sustainable they are. These tools can also make serious contributions to the sustainable design process in making design decisions and in evaluating the results of these decisions, thereby in selecting the optimum choice among the sustainable design alternatives. This research aims to discuss the potential of using the tools used for building sustainability assessment as decision support in building design. Motivated by this purpose, the roles of sustainability assessment tools in the building design process were evaluated based on the scope and features of those tools that can provide decision support, by making up-to-date research studies. Revealing the promised benefits of the use of sustainability assessment tools and to clearly defining their roles in the sustainable architectural design process is important from the perspectives of supporting the designers in achieving the goal of sustainability and integrating the sustainability assessment tools into the architectural design process for providing decision support. In order to create a more livable built environment, sustainability assessments, which provide data base to the architectural design process have become important tools that support sustainable architectural design thinking.	Sustainable Design, Environmental Performance, Decision Support, Sustainability Assessment Tools
763	Analysis of the Factors Hindering the Widespread Use of Renewable Energy Resources in Turkey Using Multi Criteria Decision Making Techniques and House of Quality	Turkey has a great potential for the  production of renewable energy. However, a substantial portion of Turkey’s  energy needs is fulfilled by using non-renewable energy sources. The factors  hindering the widespread use of renewable energy sources in Turkey are  analyzed in this study. First, the factors are determined through literature  review and a survey. Next, the importance levels of the factors are  determined using DEMATEL and Analytical Network Process multi criteria  decision making methods. Finally, alternative solutions which lessen the  impact of the factors are presented using house of quality.	Renewable Energy, Multi Criteria Decision Making, House of Quality
767	Analysis of the Forces Causing Vertical Vibration of a Four-Cylinder Internal Combustion Engıne	On the engine block, vibrations occur in three axes during the operation. The highest vibration amplitude is measured in the vertical axis because of the motion of the piston. In this study, forces causing vibration in the vertical axis of the four-cylinder gasoline engine were investigated. For this purpose, firstly mass reduction has been done for piston, crankshaft and connection rod. Position, velocity and acceleration of piston and piston rod have been defined as the function of the angle of the crankshaft. By the obtained these data, inertia and friction forces that occur on the system has been determined. For the piston, crankshaft and connecting rod, free body diagrams were drawn respectively and dynamic forces analysis were carried out. The determined forces as a result of the analysis were investigated for the effects on engine block vibrations.	Four-Cylinder Engine, Dynamic Force Analysis
768	Analysis of Tip Leakage in External Gear Pump	External gear pumps are one of the mostly used pump types in the fluid power applications due to simplicity, low cost and long operation period. However, there are some disadvantages such as internal leakages, noise and vibration with gear pumps. This study investigates comparison of theoretical calculations and numerical simulations with considering temperature effects on tip leakage. Numerical simulations have been done for pressure difference from 2 bars up to 10 bars for seven different rotational speeds. Additionally, the effect of wall temperature varied from 30 ºC up to 60 ºC has been investigated on the performance of gear pump. Because of extra assumptions made in theoretical calculations, it is shown that there are some deviations between theoretical and numerical results. These deviations are due to pressure drop which occurs because of energy dissipation between wall and teeth tip in numerical results and fully developed flow assumption made in theoretical analysis. Results of numerical study show that the fully developed assumption at the clearance of gear tooth and wall is not appropriate Furthermore, it has been shown that leakages increase linearly with temperature rise at the wall due to the drop in the viscosity of the liquid.	Gear pump, tip leakage, temperature effect
769	Multicriteria Decision Making: Providing to Connection of Kırıkkale HSR Station and City	Route planning is a critical decision-making process for urban transportation in the cities. In urban areas, it is important to consider route plans in order to provide effective services. The realization of major transportation investments necessitates the revision of the transportation plans. The fact that the High Speed Train (HSR) station will be opened in Kırıkkale shows that it is necessary to reorganize the route plans for the Kırıkkale city. In this study, due to the high student potential, the city of Kırıkkale has been taken into consideration and route planning has been made in order to ensure the connection of HSR-City center and University. AHP and TOPSIS multi-criteria decision making methods are used to find the best transportation route. Alternative routes are determined by expert opinion and literature research. The criterion weights were determined by AHP method considering the surveys. Then alternate routes were sequenced by using TOPSIS method with criterion weights. As a result, the most suitable routes are determinated among the HSR station and the identified four regions.	Multicriteria decision making, AHP, TOPSIS, route planning, HSR
770	Supply Chain Performance Management Model in Railway Industry	Time, speed and quality pressures on industries are gradually increasing. In the age of digital transformation, competition between industries is now measured by supply chain performance. By measuring performance metrics, problems in the chain can be identified and improvements can be made. It is important that strategies created from top to bottom and from bottom to top do not overlap. In this respect, there is a need for an approach to support decision-makers to make more effective decisions with less risk and to integrate strategic and operational elements. Accurate determination of performance metrics is one of the most important steps in the very complex supply chain. In the study, performance metrics were determined with the latest version of the SCOR (Supply chain operations reference) model. The interactions of the metrics in the relationship were determined by correlation analysis and the relationship was quantified. The return of operating capital and cash cycle time are the most effective metrics in supply chain performance of a railway company. In the study, a model that can make comparisons between the performance metrics and firms has been created.	Railway Industry, Correlation analysis, Supply Chain Performance Metrics, SCOR
771	Certification Originality and Design Requirements in Production of Light Weapon Ammunition and Developments in Composite Ammunition	Various levels of armed conflicts continue in many parts of the world. Many of these conflicts occur in regions close to our geography and are closely related to the security of Turkey. Multinational forces such as NATO are taking measures to prevent these conflicts and are often involved in these conflicts through their military forces. Conflicts naturally force countries to need security measures. Therefore, the need for light weapons and light weapons ammunition is at the center of these increasing needs. In this study, evaluations are driven by using Machine and Chemical Industries Corporation, NATO Army Armaments Group (NAAG), US Army Research Development Engineering Command (RDECOM), US Army Armament Research Development and Engineering Center (ARDEC) and Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) data for the light weapons and the production of light weapon ammunition.	Ammunition Certification, Ammunition Design, Light Weapon Ammunition, Ammunition Production, Ammunition Certification, Composite Ammunition
772	Microstructural And Magnetic Characterization Of The Commercial Strontium Hexaferrite Ceramic Magnets	In the present study, the microstructural and magnetic characterization of the commercial SrFe', '12', 'O', '19magnets have been carried out.', 'Density calculations for Y30BH and DM33H samples yielded 9.4 and 4.9 g/cm', '3', ', respectively corresponding to low porosity percentages.', 'Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) examinations confirmed that there is a low amount of intergranular porosity. The magnetic hysteresis curves have been determined by using Vibrating Sample Magnetometer (VSM). The saturation and remanent magnetization of Y30BH sample have been 56.45 emu/g and 32 emu/g, respectively thus they have been higher than those of DM33H sample. Improved magnetization of Y30BH sample can be attributed to the high content of strontium hexaferrite phase with a lower coercivity, Hc 3750 Oe. Maximum energy products, (BH)max have been calculated to be 55.7 and 34.2 kJ/m', '3', ', respectively for Y30BH and DM33H magnets.	Hexaferrite, hard magnet, hysteresis, magnetization
773	The energy saving surfaces for the sanitary-ware glaze by means of the phosphorescent pigment	Application of the energy saving surfaces for materials is very important and researched extensively in recent years. In this study, application of phosphorescent pigment is used in sanitary-ware. The usage of phosphorescent pigments and glazes supplies high quality and also attracts customer’s attention. In this study, produced phosphorescent pigment added into sanitary-ware glaze frit at certain ratios. After applying glazes on sanitary bodies, the compositions were fired in industrial kiln. In comparison with the standard sanitary-ware glaze, the homogenous and long lasting ability surface performed. The crystallinity of pigment and microstructure were evaluated by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscope (SEM-EDS), respectively. The results highlighted the new sanitary-ware glaze samples with phosphorescent showed satisfactory phosphorescence ability can be achieved with 10%wt. pigment addition. It is important to note that it is the first time sanitaryware was decorated with photoluminescent glaze.	Sanitary-ware, Glaze, Phosphorescence
776	Microstructural Study and Thermal Behavior of Sodium Silicofluoride	Sodium silicofluoride, with the chemical formula of Na', '2', 'SiF', '6', ', is an inorganic synthetic material which recently found lots of applications in various industries such as ceramic, metallurgy and chemical engineering. One of the main important usages of this powder is in the production of opal glass-ceramics, glazes and frits. Despite the expansion of its applications, the properties of this material were not investigated deeply elsewhere. In this research, a commercial sodium silicofluoride powder was studied and characterized in terms of thermal behavior and microstructure. The thermal analysis was investigated according to the differential thermal and thermo gravimetry curves by heating the material up to 900 °C in air. The microstructural analyses were also performed using scanning and transmission electron microscopies to study the grain size and morphology of the particles. The results showed that this commercial sodium silicofluoride material is decomposed in the temperature range of 430-600 °C in air by an accompanied endothermic reaction. The microstructural characterizations were also clarified the granular morphology of the studied SSF powder, existence of the hexagonal shaped prisms and associated pores.	Sodium silicoflouride, Characterization, Thermal analysis, Electron microscopy
778	Life Cycle Cost Analysis of Asphalt Roads: Case Study on Istanbul O3 Motorway	In our country, asphalt roads are the major investment costs. When making an investment decision, all activities carried out from the production of asphalt roads to the end of its life should be considered. Investment, maintenance & repair, and scrap values of the project should be calculated. In this study, life cycle cost analysis was performed by calculating the net present value of investment, maintenance & repair, and scrap costs of the top layer of Istanbul O3 motorway.	Asphalt, life cycle cost analysis, net present value
779	Design of Brain Computer Interface Based on Eye Movements	"With the help of modern technology, people's reactions to stimuli by examining the eye movements have become traceable. One of these measurement methods is the Eye Tracking technique. The technical advancements of this technique enable researchers to carry out studies in the fields of health, war industry, civil aviation, web design, digital media etc. that can enhance to improve the quality of the systems that can make life easier. In the concept of this study, a brain computer interface (BCI) is developed by using the principal properties of the eye tracking technology. Eye fixation information of the subjects were measured by using the in-house developed experimental paradigm software with the eye tracker while they were performing the required tasks. Two different experimental paradigm software were implemented. In the former one, subjects were asked to fixate to the buttons that appeared on the screen and they were clicked when the subjects fixated on those buttons. In the latter one, a virtual keyboard was implemented where the subjects were asked to fixate on the characters in order to write words or sentences. Additionally, eye fixations were plotted with the use of heat maps. All of the methods and tools were developed by our team. As a result, a hybrid BCI has been produced using the eye movements of subjects without performing a movement. The developed software tools were applied and high values of instruction per minute was obtained. Experimental results showed that the proposed methodology can be a pioneering technology."", '"	Brain computer interface design based on eye movements, Human-Computer Interaction, virtual keyboard
780	The Effect of Anodization and Glow Discharge Plasma Oxidation Surface Treatments on the Wear Resistance of Ti6Al4V Alloy	Nowadays, titanium and its alloys are used in the production of various implants due to their high biocompatibility and low modulus of elasticity. One of the disadvantages of titanium and its alloys is their high friction coefficient and low wear resistance. In order to overcome this disadvantage, a number of processes can be applied to the surfaces of titanium and its alloys to improve surface properties, especially wear resistance. In this study, Ti6Al4V (Grade 5) base material used in the load bearing implant production was subjected to plasma oxidation and anodic oxidation (anodization) processes. The surfaces obtained from two different oxidation processes were compared with the untreated material in terms of hardness, surface roughness, wettability and wear resistance. XRD, SEM, AFM, Micro hardness tester, Contact angle measurement device and Reciprocating sliding wear device were used for the realization of these tests. As a result of the study, the hardness value showed an increase of 116% for plasma oxidation and 36% for anodic oxidation according to the untreated material. When the surface roughness was examined, it was seen that the plasma oxidation process caused an 11% increase and anodic oxidation process caused a 33% decrease in surface roughness. The contact angle values were 48,31° for the untreated material, it was reached 73,34° after the plasma oxidation and 85,36° after the anodic oxidation process. In addition, it was observed that tribological properties were improved after both oxidation processes in comparison to untreated materials.	Ti6Al4V, Anodization, Plasma oxidation, Wear, Hardness
784	Investigation of Basalt Addition to Opaque Pottery Glaze	Basalt is one of wide-spread rocks. In this paper, basalt addition is implemented to opaque pottery glaze. Basalt from the locality Tatlarin-Nevsehir (Turkey) was used for producing the opaque glazes. Glazes were prepared with the addition of different amounts basalt contents. After firing at 1000 °C, the darkest colur was achieved with 60 wt. % basalt added opaque glaze. X-ray diffraction (XRD) was used to determine phase development and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to microstructural characterization of the glazes. Basalt, which was added to the opaque glazes for coloring purpose, decreased the amount of opaque glaze prepared using the imported zircon raw material in the total glaze composition.	Basalt, pottery, opaque glaze
786	Analysis of Industrial Engineering Education and Industry 4.0 Relationship with ESOGU Industrial Engineering Students' Perspective	"Due to the constantly changing and evolving industrial environment shaped by new technologies, students who are about to join the labor force must meet the needs and expectations of the industry. This can be ensured by the students' self-improvement and the compatibility of their academic education with the new technologies. In this context, to determine the level of knowledge and interest of industrial engineering students on new technologies related to Industry 4.0, and to investigate on which subjects they feel themselves competent or inadequate is getting more and more important. The aim of this study is to investigate the Industrial4.0 awareness of industrial engineering students."", ' ', ""The data used in the study were obtained from the questionnaire applied to the students who were studying in the Industrial Engineering Department of Eskişehir Osmangazi University in the spring term of 2018. The results revealed the students' view of Industry 4.0 and highlighted the priorities and expectations of students about engineering education."	Industry 4.0, Engineering Education, Questionnaire Survey, Student Opinions
788	An Overwiev for Development of Traction Systems on Diesel Electric Locomotives	In this work, different traction systems and their control mechanism which created with different electro-mechanical methods on diesel-electric locomotives are examined. Different topologies which improved on years are represented. Tractions systems are discussed with details with the examples taken from the mainline and shunting locomotives which have been designed and produced by TULOMSAS (Turkish Locomotive & Engine Industry Inc.) and used commercially by TCDD(The State Railways of Republic of Turkey). Alternative current and direct current traction systems have been examined comparatively. The power control structures which risen with the enhancements in power electronics and its railway industry applications are described.	Traction System, Diesel Control, Traction Motor, Locomotive, Generator-set
791	RECURRENT NEURAL NETWORK BASED T WAVE END DETECTION	Artificial neural networks (ANN) have been utilized in many areas such as classification, pattern discrimination, etc. In this study, a novel ANN based algorithm is proposed to detect T-wave end point, one of the important ECG signal parameters to determine heart health conditions that may be hardly marked with respect to the other ECG fiducial points. Since the feedforward neural networks (NN) applications in time series signal processing has a limited success, we adopt a recurrent NN architecture. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the algorithm, a set of single channel ECG signals obtained from PHYSIONET/QT database is preprocessed first, then using some clustering algorithms, the observation of the T wave end is sought within a limited time window. The algorithm is shown to reach a performance exceeding the expectations of the standards. It has been trained by 55 beats out of 295 and reaches the success rate of 11.16±6.16 and -4.70±6.64 milliseconds error in terms of absolute and non-absolute conditions, respectively. Furthermore, the proposed algorithm has been retested on some other 421 ECG beats annotated by experts, where it had an excellent score of -6.40±17.22 milliseconds marking error.	Recurrent neural network, T Wave end, Signal processing, Classification
796	Numerical Investigation of Unsteady Cavity Flow Aeroacoustics by Large Eddy Simulation	Flow along a cavity is of special interest for researchers due to the occurrence of free shear layer flow and related high levels of sound and pressure forces. In this study, turbulent flow along an open cavity at a low inlet Mach number (Ma = 0.034) is modelled by Large Eddy Simulations (LES). The velocity profiles at various stations inside the open cavity are compared to available experimental data. It is found that LES results agree with experimental data and detects the transient pressure change in the flow field satisfactorily. Transient pressure data in the flow field is evaluated in acoustic analogy. The noise generated by the cavity is compared with the established Rossiter modes and is found to be reasonable. To create an effect on the sound pressure levels (SPL), a small obstacle with quadrilateral cross section is immersed in the shear layer at three different locations. This causes that the SPL peaks are reduced compared to the case without any obstacle. Thus, cavity-induced noise form specific frequencies are redistributed to high frequency broadband noise as a result of this passive flow control method.	Low Mach number flow, Passive flow control, Acoustic analogy, Rossiter mechanism
797	Development of a Novel Liquid Crystal Sensor for Pollen Detection	In this study, we have reported liquid crystal based-sensor for the detection of pollen concentration which triggers an allergy. Cholesteric liquid crystal which is mesophase of thermotropic liquid crystals was used a sensing element in the pollen sensor. The cholesteric liquid crystal samples operating at room temperature were formulated using nematic liquid crystal and chiral dopants in different compositions. The pollen concentration which is embedded in the cholesteric liquid crystal was determined as a function of change in color of cholesteric liquid crystal in the prototype. We demonstrated that the variation of color from green to blue with the increasing pollen concentration using Ocean Optics spectrophotometer. Therefore, the rapid and easy determination of pollen concentration have been became possible by using this prototype. Our sensor will provide simplicity and self-test as a screen of pollen concentration by using the optical advantage of cholesteric liquid crystal as a sensing element.	Allergy, Chiral dopant, Cholesteric liquid crystal, Pollen, Wavelength
803	Determination of the Relationship Between Foam Images with % Copper Grade in Copper Flotation Process by Image Analysis Method	In this study, the correlation between the grade of copper enrichment and the foam images obtained during laboratory scale flotation of copper ore obtained from Siirt Madenköy flotation plant was determined. Only air flow rate was changed between 2 and 8 l/min with a flowmeter, all other flotation parameters were kept the same with the flotation plant. Foam images captured by a video camera were processed by MATLAB Watershed Transform method and air bubbles were defined. Bubble shape and size data were obtained by detecting and segmenting bubble watershed borders in foam images. In this study, image processing based fuzzy logic inference system that can be used in the automation of flotation process was designed using 3 different flotation experiment data sets. The correlation coefficient between measured and calculated grade of copper enrichment is r = 0,96.	Flotation, Image processing, MATLAB, Fuzzy logic, Cupper ore
804	Smart Phone Applications in Noise Level Measurements	The fact that noise pollution is extremely important for human health and the noise pollution caused by traffic in every passing day increases the noise pollution in cities and the creation of noise maps. Considering the cost of noise equipment used in noise pollution measurements, noise measurement software used in smart phones has been used in recent years in order to receive data at more measurement points and to reduce measurement costs. In this study, noise measurement sensitivities of different telephones and software were investigated with laboratory noise measurement device. In the study, Android and iOS operating systems and different model phones were used. Noise Meter and Sound Meter Pro Software performances were evaluated for noise measurements. Depending on the microphone systems in the phones and the Android and iOS systems, the traffic noise measurements of the software vary with the results of the continuous measurement device. By improving the sensitivity of the software, it is thought that the results of the continuous measurement devices can be reached, and accurate and accurate measurement can be made at low cost with more points.	Noise, Android, iOS, Sound meter pro, Noise meter
807	Analysis of Flood Areas with Object-Based Classification	"Modern remote sensing systems are used extensively by almost all disciplines around the world and their scope is increasing day by day.', 'Nowadays, the possibility of evaluating the remote sensing data obtained from satellites with computer technology and image processing techniques; It was made possible by determining the current land use and temporarily determining the environmental changes. The main principle of creating land cover maps with remote sensing techniques is to classify the images of the area.', 'The temporal changes of the terrain can be detected by processing and classifying the remote sensing data from the satellites.', 'Correct and effective use of resources to be used during and after disasters is important in areas where earthquake events, floods, fires, landslides, and avalanches occur. Effective use of advanced technology sensors before, during and after disasters; It provides significant benefits in disaster management steps to mitigate, identify, respond to, and renew disaster zones.', 'At this point, remote sensing data is one of the main sources used to monitor the changes that occur especially in disaster areas over time.', 'In our study, flood areas were determined and classified using object-oriented approach by using multi-band satellite images showing the change before and after the disaster. The flood areas determined from the satellite data were transferred to the GIS environment and the flood area was analyzed before and after the disaster. According to the results, evaluations were made considering the magnitude and importance of the changes."	Disaster management, Change detection, Image processing, Object-based classification, Flood, Remote sensing
811	Supreme Court’s Decisions for Fatal Occupational Accidents within the Scope of Occupational Health and Safety	"Although the role of mechanization increases rapidly in the workplace together with the technology, there is still human and its labor in the center of production. No matter how different the production and working order is, the working places carry a number of risks related to human health and safety and these risks can endanger people's lives. Risks encountered in the workplace can damage to the parties both economically and psychologically and may lead to a decrease in production by causing labor force losses. Accident; is the set of reasons which happens sudden and causes unintended damages."", 'In terms of occupational health and safety, occupational accidents are the heart of occupational health and safety phenomenon. The main aim of numerous struggles and legislation work is to prevent occupational accidents and occupational diseases. It is highly important whether it is an occupational accident or which is considered as an occupational accident jurally. The results of a given accident will be different according to whether there is an occupational accident or not. In this study, Supreme Court decisions towards occurred fatal occupational', "" accidents within the scope of Occupational Health and Safety in Turkey between the years 2013-2018 were examined. In addition, it was investigated how the occupational accident was explained in the Turkish legal system and it was inquired whether the decisions made were closer to the defect liability or strict liability as a point of view. In order for the employer to be responsible for an accident, a causal relation must be established between the damage and any act or attitude of the employer. In the actions of occupational accidents, the existence of this relation is primarily investigated. The results of the decision of the Supreme Court resulting the deaths of fatal accidents demonstrate that the employer is charged with a crime of reckless killing and that the employer has to show his duty of attention and care and that there must be a relation of casuality between the act of perpetrator and the harmful consequence which came about. In addition, the quality of the work-related performance between the employer and the employee, and the importance of the limitations in the employer's occupational accidents come into prominence in the decisions that were made."	Occupational health and safety, Working accident, Supreme court decision, Emloyer, Employee
812	Free Vibration Analysis of FG Straight-Axis Beams Based on the First-Order Shear Deformation Theory	In this work, the free vibration characteristics of functionally graded (FG) beams with straight-axis are investigated based on the first-order shear deformation theory (FSDT). It is assumed that the material properties change only through the thickness of the beam. The effects of the coefficient of variation, length/thickness ratios and boundary conditions on the free vibration behavior of the beams are also examined in a parametric manner. The equations of motion, governing the free vibration behavior of these beams are obtained using the principle of minimum total energy based on the Timoshenko’s beam assumption. These ordinary differential equations (ODEs) obtained in the canonical form are solved numerically by the Complementary Functions Method (CFM). The calculated natural vibration frequencies are compared with the results of the existing studies in the literature and shown to be in agreement with them.	Functionally graded materials, Complementary functions method, Free vibration analysis
813	Investigation of the Usability of Cationization Process in Terry Fabric Pretreatment and Determination of the Effect on the Product Properties	The scope of this study, terry fabrics having different pile warp raw material type and different grammage were categorized in different concentrations after grouping according to the application of bleaching process. While trying to determine the softness and hydrophility values of treated fabrics, the applicability of environmental cationization process instead of bleaching process was investigated. After all processes, softness and hydrophility values were tested according to the standards. As a result, it was found that the application of cationization instead of bleaching process contributed positively to the softness of towel fabrics and acceptable levels were obtained in terms of hydrophility.	Cationization, Towel, Hydrophility, Softness
814	Modeling Kucuk Menderes Watershed with SWAT	Water resources in Kucuk Menderes Watershed have been adversely affected by anthropogenic activities and climate change. Increasing population and uncontrolled water uses have transformed the watershed into a water-stressed watershed. Modeling studies in water resources are required to solve these problems in the watershed. In this study, a hydrological model for the watershed was established using SWAT (Soil and Water Assessment Tool). The model calibration and sensitivity analysis were performed by SWAT-CUP (SWAT-Calibration Uncertainty Programs) using Sequential Uncertainty Fitting (SUFI-2) method. The model was mostly sensitive to CN2, SOL_BD (layer#), RCHRG_DP and SOL_K (layer#) parameters. The performance of the model was evaluated with P-factor, R-factor and objective functions. P-factor values were in the range of 61-80%, meaning that the monitoring data were matched by the model within this range. According to the objective functions, the model performance was evaluated as satisfactory. The results of this study could serve as a base for a wide range of studies in the watershed such as effects of climate change, the effectiveness of Best Management Practices (BMPs) on water resources and water quality modeling.	Kucuk Menderes Watershed, Watershed management, Hydrological models, SWAT, SUFI-2
815	Improving the Strength of a Clay Soil with Lime Additive	In this study, the effect of adding lime to clay soil on strength was investigated. For the purpose of the study, lime, which is used as an additive, was added to the clay soil in different percentages by weight. In the prepared mixtures, lime was added in 2.5%, 5%, 7.5%, 10%, 15% and 20% of the weight of clay. The samples prepared in different proportions were homogeneously mixed, and then compaction, unconfined compression and California bearing ratio (CBR) tests were performed. As a result of experimental studies, as the lime content in the mixture increased, the plasticity index and maximum dry density decreased while the optimum water content increased. In addition, the highest unconfined compressive strength value of the samples cured for 7 and 28 days was obtained at the rate of 5% lime. For this additive ratio, the CBR values of the samples cured at the same time were 1.37 and 2.08 times higher than the additive-free clay soil, respectively.	Clay soil, Lime, Additive, Soil stabilization, CBR
816	Effect of Reactor Types and Operating Parameters for the Hydrogen Production through Steam Reforming Process of Ethanol	In the present study, hydrogen production process from ethanol was developed with the aid of Aspen Plus. Firstly, the effect of reactor types on ethanol conversion rates was investigated by simulating three different reactors in Aspen Plus and it was determined that the RGibss reactor provided the best conversion rate compare to REquilibrium and RPlug. Two different activity coefficient models, UNIFAC and UNIQUAC, have been tested and the best conversion rate has attained with the use UNIQUAC model. Once the optimal best reactor type and activity coefficient model were decided, the effects of reactor operating parameters such as temperature, pressure and mixing ratio on ethanol conversion rate were studied respectively. Temperature, pressure and mixing ratio for the optimal conversion rate of ethanol were determined as 500 °C, 1 atm and 1/4 respectively. Finally, a separator was used to purify the hydrogen gas and pure H2 with a purity of 99.9% was subsequently produced. The obtained data indicate that Aspen Plus simulator has been performed successfully and shows that such successful simulations can minimize experimental costs and time loss.	Aspen plus, Ethanol, Hydrogen energy, Steam reforming, Reactor conditions
817	Optimization of Multi-Purpose Reservoirs for Energy Production Using Genetic Algorithm	When other purposes of multi-purpose reservoirs are used as constraints, different optimization techniques are used for optimization of hydroelectric power generation. In this study, hydroelectric power generation of a multipurpose reservoir in the enterprise was maximized by using Genetic Algorithm from Evolution based programs. The program code developed for this purpose has been applied to the Karakuz Dam reservoir in the Seyhan River Basin, which has the purpose of supplying drinking water, and the total energy is maximized. With the operating policy achieved with the developed program, the total energy in the feasibility report of the dam has become more than ten percent more produced. Developed for a multi-purpose single reservoir, the program can be easily developed for multi-purpose multi-reservoir systems. The developed program and the optimized enterprise policies will contribute significantly to the implementers and decision makers considering the energy deficit and the effects of global warming.	Hydroelectric energy optimization, Genetic algorithm, Multipurpose reservoir
818	Effect of Needle Diameter and Flow Rate on Electrospun Polyacrylonitrile Nanofiber Morphology	Due to the advantageous properties, electrospinning is the most common method in nanofiber production. While some electrospinning parameters (viscosity, surface tension etc.) are fundamentally important on nanofiber morphology, the others (applied voltage, feed rate etc.) are also important. Different relationships between needle diameter and average nanofiber diameter for various polymers have been mentioned in the literature. In this study, the effect of needle diameter and flow rate on morphology of electrospun polyacrylonitrile (PAN) nanofibers are investigated. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) is used for determination of morphology and also an image processing software is used for determination of average diameter and standard deviation of PAN nanofibers. The results show that, average nanofiber diameter increases with increasing of needle diameter and flow rate. Also, lower nanofiber diameter deviation is obtained in larger diameter needles. Also it is seen that, bead formation increases with increasing of needle diameter for especially 60 µL/min of feed rate value.	Electrospin, Nanofiber, Polyacrylonitrile, Needle diameter, Flow rate
823	Estimation of Energy to be Obtained from PV Power Plants Using Machine Learning Methods	"The increase in the need for electricity has led the countries to provide reliable, inexpensive and clean energy. Recently, among those energy sources, those based on photovoltaic power systems have come forward. Solar energy potential in Turkey is high, the number of investments in photovoltaic power plants with government incentives are increasing. The feasibility studies for the selection of the location of photovoltaic plants and the design of the systems are considered as an important issue in terms of determining the economic value of the investments to be made. Equations and methods have been developed to calculate the electrical energy that can be obtained according to the radiant energy before the plant is established. One of these methods is to develop machine learning models and to obtain simulation results. In this study; The establishment of the 125 planned for different areas of electric power to be generated by the PV power plant in Turkey, aimed to estimate with machine learning models. For this purpose, in the estimation of solar radiation for PV systems; artificial neural networks (ANN), multiple linear regression (MLR) and k-nearest neighbors regression (KNNR) machine learning methodologies were used. In order to analyze the performance of these methodologies, a series of experimental evaluations were made. The data set for evaluations has been tested in basic python libraries such as Numpy, Pandas, Scipy, as well as in the scikit-learn library developed for machine learning applications. Experimental results have shown that seven independent variables used as input can predict the electrical power produced by PV based on the study of prediction algorithms based on machine learning."	Renewable energy, machine learning, multiple lineae regression (MLR), k-nearest neighbors regression (KNNR)
824	Design with Three Dimensional Printers in the Furniture Sector and Relationship on Material-Form-Manufacturing Method	Among the technological developments, three-dimensional printers are one of the prominent titles in terms of their potential for the future. The aim of the study is to provide an overview of the design of furniture with three-dimensional printers in the furniture sector and innovative furniture designs of the use of materials with new generation technologies. In the content of the study, today's working principles of three-dimensional printers, possibilities of using in furniture sector, materials and raw materials used and furniture design examples are explained. Three-dimensional printers, new generation of materials, from the designer to the manufacturer and to the user with the convenience, alternatives and innovations in the furniture design industry carries important potential for the future.	3D Printer, Furniture design, Material, Form, Production method
825	Using Empirical Approaches in Stope Design	The studies in the mine planning and design process are crucial to ensure efficient use of natural resources and reduce the overall cost of mining. In underground mining, stopes should be designed to minimize the dilution and ore loss depending on the production method to be selected. At this point, empirical stope design that takes into account parameters such as the rock mass characterization and stope geometry draws attention. The empirical modified stability graph method to design stable stopes is known widely used in this context. The stability graph was introduced initially for open stope design and then it has gained wide recognition in open stope design around the world especially in metalliferous mining. The method is based on the tunnelling quality index Q and takes into account the most important factors affecting stope design. From the past to the present, there have been several improvements in the stability graph method aimed at increasing the reliability of the stope in predicting the stability status. This study firstly introduces the stability graph method in detail and then discusses the developments in this regard.	Underground mine production, Stope design, Empirical stability graph method
826	Extraction of Micromeria Fruticosa L. Druce by Using Super Critical Carbon Dioxide and Optimization of Extraction Conditions on Amount of Menthone, Isomenthone and Pulegone	Micromeria fruticosa L. Druce, also called “taşnanesi”, is a Mediterranean plant with medicinal properties. In this study, response surface methodology (RSM) was used to optimize parameter values that have an effect on the concentration of menthone, isomenthone and pulegone in the supercritical CO2 extraction of Micromeria fruticosa L. Druce. For this purpose, 3-factor and 3-level Box-Behnken design was applied and temperature, pressure and time were chosen as independent variables. The assessment of results obtained were carried out by using Design-Expert software. The mathematical relationship between the responses and independent parameters were explained by quadratic equation. For supercritical CO2 extraction, the statistically significant relationship was obtained between the experimental results and predicted results. To reach the maximum concentration of menthone, isomenthone and pulegone, the optimum experimental conditions were found to be 47.16 oC, 216.99 atm ve 22.45 min. In terms of the major components of Micromeria fruticosa L. Druce, a study on the optimization of extraction conditions using supercritical CO2 has not been found in the literature. The fact that this study has been studied for the first time is considered to be important both in terms of its contribution to the literature and in terms of contributing to the pharmacology, food and nutraceuticals industries.	Supercritical carbon dioxide, Micromeria fruticosa L., Response surface methodology
827	An Experimental Study on Knitted Socks from Different Raw Materials	Socks, which is one of the basic necessities of clothing, is not only a cover material but also an extremely important garment for human health. Raw material is an important criterion when it comes to the performance of socks. In this context, in this study, experimental measurements on air permeability, pilling and abrasion properties of socks containing polyamide, bamboo, modal and cotton were made and the results obtained in the study were interpreted depending on the type of raw material.	Knitted socks, Pilling, Abrasion, Air permeability
828	Heat Flow Behaviours of Distaloy AE Alloys Produced by Powder Metallurgy	"The alloying techniques are classified with pre-alloyed, pre-mixed and diffusion-bonded powders. Distaloy AE alloy used in this study is type of diffusion-bonded alloy including of Fe, Ni and Mo alloying elements and has high strengthening microstructures. In this study; hardness, density and heat flows distaloy AE samples prepared by powder metallurgy method performed. As hardness and density measurements of these samples, Brinell hardness measurements and Archimedes water displacement technique performed and heat flows of these alloys determined using Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) device. These results supported by SEM images, EDS spectrums of alloys and also, crystal structures of these alloys determined by XRD patterns."	Distaloy AE, Powder metallurgy, Heat flow, Surface characterization
829	Design of Notched Rounded Bowtie Antenna for Ultra-Wideband Communication Systems	In this paper, a modified bowtie antenna structure is proposed for Ultra-Wideband communication systems. This antenna is obtained by rounding and notching the edges of antenna arms. Antenna parameters for the designed structure are examined according to the restrictions specified by Federal Communications Commission. Thus, Return Loss (S11), Voltage Standing Wave Ratio (VSWR), gain, radiation pattern and impedance are observed in the 3.1 GHz - 10.6 GHz frequency range. Additionally, the effect of arm length and dielectric material on antenna performance are interpreted in the same range.According to obtained results, the proposed structure satisfies the bandwidth requirements for Ultra-Wideband systems. Gain and impedance variations are also in acceptable limits for Ultra-Wideband applications. The proposed antenna is analyzed through CST Microwave Studio program.	Antenna design, Notched bowtie antenna, Ultra-wideband
832	Optimal Value Capacitor Selection and Power Control Using Continuous Time Ant Colony Algorithm in Nonlinear Loads	The necessity of consumption and energy that emerged in our world with the ever-developing industry and urbanization has become an important problem. This problem has made it necessary to conduct research on how to use existing energy resources in the most efficient way while constantly directing new energy sources. Although legal regulations have been made to remedy these problems in part, they are often seen to be inadequate. One of the most effective and efficient ways to relieve operation in electrical energy systems, increase system and energy efficiency, reduce costs and ensure voltage stability is to make reactive power compensation. In this study, in a linear welded power system, it is ensured that the capacity value of the capacitor required for compensation is reduced to a minimum by reducing the effects of the harmonics in the nonlinear loads affecting the system and reducing the voltage drop which may occur even by minimizing the effect of reactive power and optimizing the minimum apparent power, the maximum power factor is obtained and the voltage drop in the line is minimized.	Continuous Time Ant Colony Algorithm, Algorithm, Compensation, Linear Source
834	IMPORTANCE OF OVERBURDEN EXCAVATION ON ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS OF BLASTING APLICATIONS IN OPEN PITS	This study was carried out to determine whether the vibration and air shock effects of blasting operations during overburden excavation at an open pit site would cause damage to the environment and especially to the underground drift for airflow entry near the excavation area. However, one of the blasting performed here is realized on a bench which has been loosened but not transferred to overburden stock area. Pattern and explosive amounts determined by the authorities in the field and the explosions carried out in the same bench without the transportation of loose overburden is determined to pose a significant risk in terms of vibration.	Blasting, Overburden, vibration, air shock
835	An Algorithm that Calculates the Lengths of Codewords Algebraically for Canonical Huffman-like Encoding	The lengths of codewords required for canonical Huffman codes are produced in two stages. An algorithm that calculate the lengths required for the production of prefix-free canonical codes in single stage by algebraic method is proposed in this paper. The “average bit length per symbol” of the resulting code is usually not optimal, but it is closer to optimal than similar ones. The lengths of the codewords are calculated starting from the most frequently used symbol, provided that the weight array is ordered. The proposed algorithm calculates the lengths of the codewords using the formula li= round (log(ei/pi)) where pi is the probability of i-th symbol and ei is the sum of the remaining probabilities. Finally, the codes in the canonical form are obtained from the calculated lengths. The whole process is completed in ?(n) time and uses ?(n) words memory, where n is the number of symbols.	Data compression, Encoding, Huffman algorithm, Canonical form, Prefix free codes
836	Determination of Evaporative Cooling Possibilities in Greenhouses in Different Climate Regions	Plants grown in greenhouses were adapted to 17-27 °C. If the daily average temperature rises above 22 °C, cooling measures must be taken in greenhouses. The efficiency of evaporative cooling in greenhouses varies depending on the external climatic conditions and the efficiency of the system.Evaporative cooling in greenhouses is based on cooling of air by transfer of sensible heat to latent heat. water added to the air causes all physical properties of the air to change. The new characteristics of the resulting air should be determined from psychrometric equations.Made of greenhouses in Turkey in this study with intensive structures that will be held in greenhouses with high technology in different climatic zones evaporative cooling of the climate and temperature can be reached depending airports in efficiency of pads used values are calculated theoretically.In the climatic conditions of Adana, 90% pad efficiency cannot be drawn to 27 oC in the greenhouse, 90% pad efficiency in Mersin, 70% pad efficiency in Şanlıurfa, and evaporative cooling in Afyonkarahisar conditions. It was determined that the temperature can be kept at the desired values of the plants.	Greenhouse cooling, Evaporative cooling, Shading, Cooling efficiency
837	Sedimentary Evidences for the Depositional and Environmental Changes Regarding to Regression during Mid to Late Miocene in the Neogene Adana Basin (Southern Turkey)	"In this study we investigate sedimentary and stratigraphic characteristics of the Mid to Late Miocene deposits to better understanding of the Tertiary evolution of the Adana Basin (Southern Turkey). For this purpose, detailed mapping, sedimentary survey and interpretations were made considering the stratigraphic relations in the Middle-Late Miocene units in the region. The depositional evolution of the Adana Basin starts during the Early Miocene as a foreland basin within the Çukurova region. An extensive marine transgression during the Early Miocene commenced the filling of the basin. The pre-Miocene deposition area was a large platform with an adjacent depression area. This depositional environment widely controlled the Miocene sedimentation after the Aquitanian-Burdigalian transgression.  The Miocene sequences in the Adana Basin were deposited due to the northward transgression. The northerly sourced deltaic and littoral-brackish Kaplankaya Formation and a slightly deeper reefal Karaisalı Formation were deposited in the areas close to the shore. Documented by shallow to deeper marine sedimentation, the marine inundation of the region occurred during Aquitanian-Burdigalian and continued into the Serravallian causing the former coastline to migrate north. Synchronously tectonic subsidence further south cause southward progressive deepening. Therefore, various facies types, ranging from deep marine turbidites to terrestrial, deposited in the basin. The northern margin of the basin was experienced normal faulting in consequence of progressive tectonic and subsidence events during this marine transgression in the Langhian-Serravallian.Mapped and interpreted within three facies types, Güvenç Formation include; i) deep marine sediments, ii) offshore sediments and iii) shallow marine sediments. Deep sea deposits were accumulated in the early stages of the Early-Middle Serravalian period in the deeper part of the basin. During the Mid-to Late Serravallian offshore sediments were deposited in the southern parts of the basin. Further south, due to the continued regression, the shallow marine sediments were deposited in the basin during the Serravalian. Related to the neotectonic period of Anatolia, the transgressive sequences deposited within the basin were tilted during Late Serravallian to Early Tortonian period. The marine regression towards the south was accompanied by tectonic re-organisation in the Early Tortonian. Consequently, regressive sequences of the Tortonian age, the Kuzgun member of Kuzgun Formation, which involve shallow marine (beach) sediments and meandering river deposits are resting on the tilted Güvenç Formation with low angle unconformity."	Adana basin, Neogene sediments, Transgression, Regression
838	Modeling Intercity Car Travels in Turkey with the Gravity Method and Analyzing them in GIS Environment	Although there are many models for obtaining origin-destination (O-D) matrices in the literature, using approaches based on home surveys or roadside conservations is expensive. Thus, various methods that are cheaper have been developed to obtain O-D matrices. One of these methods has been developed by Bell, and obtains travel matrices from vehicle counts. After this model was used for finding the intercity car travel matrix, a gravity based travel distribution model was developed. The matrix obtained was then transferred to Geographic Information Systems (GIS) environment for realizing spatial analyses.	O-D matrix estimation, Geographic Information Systems, Intercity car travels
839	Spatial Size Analysis of Technical and Support Service Units of Hospital Buildings: A Case of Çukurova University Medicine Faculty Balcalı Hospital	"Hospitals are large, complex buildings that provide 24-hour uninterrupted health care. Technical and support service units play an important role in the uninterrupted operation of these buildings. Disruptions in these units jeopardize the safety of patients, relatives and personnel, cause deterioration of the comfort of the environment and may even have serious consequences that may result in death in patients. In this direction, in order to draw attention to such technical service units; The aim of this study was to determine the spatial size of technical and support service units located in Balcalı Hospital of Çukurova University Faculty of Medicine. The main materials of the study consist of Balcalı Hospital 1/1.000 scale current map, 1/100 scale architectural floor plans and quantitative and qualitative data obtained from field determination studies for the hospital structure. The methodology of the research is based on the examination of the total indoor area quantitative data of the hospital and the quantitative data of the technical and support service units within the framework of the spatial magnitude. In this study, the total spatial size of the hospital and the spatial size of the technical and support service units were determined. C.U. Medicine Faculty Balcalı Hospital instance of spatial size of Turkey Ministry of Health on research evaluated by examining the health standards in 2010 and the results of the research of the technical units of the hospital's total covered area were found to constitute approximately 10%. In addition, in accordance with the 2010 Health Standards of the Ministry of Health, it was determined that the hospital has an area of at least 130 m2 per bed and 1200 m2 per bed. "", ' With this study, it is aimed to draw attention to the importance of architectural comfort conditions and aesthetic level which are given priority in hospital designs, as well as technical and support service departments that give life to the system."	Hospital structure, Spatial size analysis, Technical and support services
840	Investigation of Asymmetric Transmission Properties of 2D Metallic Photonic Crystal for Optical Diode Application	Current studies combined optics and photonics provide the most promising materials for potential technological and industrial applications, because of their exciting optical and electronic properties. Metals show a lot of optical phenomena associated with their rich dispersion properties, and are widely used in the range from visible to THz frequencies. In this study, asymmetric transmission properties of 2-D photonic crystals have been studied. The effects of different geometric and optical parameters on the transmission are investigated by using MATLAB and freely available MEEP software based on the FDTD method. A novel structure made of silver is used to manipulate electromagnetic propagation of different wave lengths. The simulation results represent transmittance values for the TM mode where the electromagnetic propagation transverse to the same way of incidence wave. As a result, the best comparative asymmetric transmittance values are obtained as 0.75, and 0.15 from top and bottom sides, respectively.	2-D Photonic crystal, Asymmetric transmission, FDTD
841	Investigation of the Effects of Production Parameters on the Hydroxyapatite Powder Properties and Coating Quality	Metal implants that have been widely used in biomedical applications are coated with materials having superior biocompatibility in order to facilitate fast and successful integration with the surrounding tissue. Hydroxyapatite (HA) is especially preferred among the coating materials having a high biocompatibility and similar properties to the organic phase of bone. In this study, nano sized HA powder was produced using acid-base method in order to be used as coating material. Produced powders were coated on Ti6Al4V metal substrates using electrophoretic deposition technique. Effects of reaction temperature and aging duration on the particle size, powder morphology and thermal stability of the powders have been investigated, effects of powder properties on the crack formation before sintering have been determined.  Experiments showed that reaction temperature and aging duration do not have a significant effect on the formation of HA and high temperature stability of the HA phase. Thermal treatment conducted at 1200 °C does not have a negative effect on the decomposition of HA compared to the thermal treatment conducted at 1000 °C. Therefore, it is concluded that sintering step which will be conducted in order to obtain coating adhesion may be completed at 1200 °C. It was found that crack formation in the coating before sintering significantly decreases with the increase in aging duration.	Hydroxyapatite, Particle size, Powder morphology, Thermal stability, Aging, Coating
842	Investigation of Usability of Iron Coated Activated Carbon for Phosphorus Removal from Aqueous Solutions	Phosphorus is a basis nutrient for living organisms, but also causes an environmental problem called eutrophication at very low concentrations in aquatic environments. In this research, the commercially available activated carbon material was coating with iron and phosphorus removal was investigated with synthesized new material (DKK). As a result of laboratory studies, it was found that DKK can be used functionally in phosphorus removal in aqueous solutions. In addition, the phosphorus holding capacity of the material was found to be 4.26 mg PO43-/g DKK. It has been concluded that adsorption complies with the Langmuir mathematical model and can be used in phosphorus removal by commercially synthesizing with appropriate conditions for production.	Phosphorus removal, Activated carbon, Adsorption ısotherms, Carbon coating
843	CRITIC-EDAS Approach in Corporate Sustainability Performance Analysis	Because of their role in the national economy and strategic importance, energy firms should focus not only on economic growth, but also on improving their corporate sustainability in all aspects. In this study, an integrated method, which integrates CRITIC and EDAS method, is proposed for corporate sustainability performance evaluation. Using the proposed method, the corporate sustainability performance of an energy company as of 2010-2018 was evaluated. The CRITIC method, one of the objective weighting methods based on the actual value of the criteria, was used to calculate the weights of the sustainability criteria. The calculated criteria weights were used as input in the EDAS method and the corporate sustainability assessment of the company was conducted over the years. According to the results of the analysis, it is observed that the corporate sustainability performance of the company is not stable but it has started to increase as of 2018. In addition, the results obtained by integrating the EDAS method with different criteria weighting methods were compared. It has been demonstrated that the proposed approach is an appropriate tool for evaluating corporate sustainability performance.	Corporate sustainability, Energy firms, MCDM, CRITIC, EDAS
844	The Influence of 1-Benzyl-3-Methylimidazolium Hexafluorophosphate on Corrosion of C1010 Steel in Acidic Medium	In present study, inhibition efficiency of 1-benzyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate was examined in 1 M HCl solution on corrosion of C1010 steel. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and potentiodynamic polarization methods were realized. Potentiodynamic polarization results revealed that anodic and cathodic current densities were reduced with increase of inhibitor concentration. It was also determined from EIS measurements inhibition efficiencies were still high even increased temperatures. Adsorption behavior of inhibitor on steel obeyed Langmuir adsorption isotherm. The obtained all results demonstrated that used inhibitor had 83.5% inhibition efficiency on corrosion of C1010 steel in acidic medium.	Corrosion, C1010 Steel, 1-Benzyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate
845	Analysis of Cryotherapy Treatment of Verruca by Machine Learning	There are several patient- and verruca-specific factors that determine treatment response to cryotherapy. A comprehensive analysis of these factors necessitates the use of a systematic and rational approach. The present study uses machine learning algorithms to analyze the clinical patient- and verruca-specific factors that affect the success of cryotherapy treatment. Machine learning algorithms were applied to the cryotherapy dataset. The best results in the prediction of treatment response to cryotherapy were achieved through the C&R Tree classification method, with a 96% accuracy rate, followed by the C5.0 Tree, CHAID Tree and the adjusted J48 Decision Tree algorithms, respectively. The C&R Tree classification method revealed that the most significant factors that affected treatment response in verrucae, in the order of importance, were the time to the first session, the patient’s age, the type of verruca, the number of verrucae and the region of the verruca. We believe that by identifying factors that affect treatment success and investigating the relations between variables, machine learning approaches can guide clinical treatment decisions for the more effective management of verruca treatment, which represent an important social and economic burden in public health.', ' 	CRISP-DM, cryotherapy dataset, machine learning, wart treatment
848	Risk Assessment Application in a Textile Company: 5x5 Matrix and HAZOP	Occupational accidents and risk have increased in the textile sector, one of leading sectors of our country and the sector became vulnerable in terms of danger with the advanced technology and mechanization. Therefore, occupational health and safety is the most important steps to be taken in order to prevent incidents and minimize them by detecting dangers, grading the risks of these dangers accurately and setting out measures. The selection of most appropriate risk assessment method for the business is necessary in order to take this step. In this research HAZOP and 5x5 matrix methods are implemented in a knit fabric manufacturer company and the applicability, advantages and disadvantages of two risk assessment methods for the sector are determined.	Occupational health and safety, Risk Assessment, HAZOP, 5x5 matrix method, textile, knitting
850	Sound Scene and Events Detection using Deep Learning in the Scope of Cyber Security for Multimedia Systems	In addition to many natural sound sources in nature, synthetic sounds are also used in the multimedia systems of our modern world. Environments (i.e., sound scenes) with these sounds are important for biometric authorization, security requirements and robust/safer voice/video communication. Apart from audio formats that have special constraints such as speech/speaker recognition and verification, the separation of polyphonic sounds, noise reduction, detection of sound scenes/events and voice tagging processes are gaining importance in order to create safer information systems in terms of cyber security. In recent years deep learning has been preferred in the field of cyber security due to its layered infrastructure, which enables the easy extraction of attributes and semantic relationships in the raw data. In this study, the use of deep learning architecture models for voice (or speech) analysis and classification/prediction and detection as multimedia data in cyber security coverage is examined. In our study, deep neural networks, convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks, restricted Boltzmann machine and deep belief networks are systematically reviewed as prominent models in the publications between 2015 and 2019. Therefore, the orientation in the literature on voice/speech processing in cyber security, prevention of voice spoofing, and achieving consistent and high performance results is clearly demonstrated through discussions and comments based on scientific findings over fourty studies.	Speaker Recognition, Cyber Security, Sound Event Detection, Deep Learning
854	COMPUTATION OF SHORTEST PATH PROBLEM IN A NETWORK WITH SV-TRIANGULAR NEUTROSOPHIC NUMBERS	In this article,', 'we present an algorithm method for finding the shortest path length between a paired nodes on a network where', 'the edge weights are characterized by single valued triangular neutrosophic numbers. The proposed algorithm gives the shortest path length from source node to destination node based on a ranking method. Finally, a numerical example is also presented to illustrate the efficiency of the proposed approach.	single valued triangular neutrosophic number, score function, shortest path problem
856	"Wastewater Treatment, Wastewater Discharge and Water Pollution; The Case Study of Trabzon Province"	This study was carried out on wastewater disposal facilities and river and sea pollution in Trabzon Districts of Eastern Black Sea coast. In this study, wastewater, contamination of surface water with wastewater, pollution parameters of wastewater generated in settlements are discussed. It is focused on the existing wastewater treatment plants of this raw water and the deep sea discharges which is the second part of the treatment. With DDD structures, sea water pollution and wastewater discharge to rivers, both surface water and sea water pollution occur. The results of this study and recommendations for treatment of the raw wastewater generated in this region and their delivery to deep sea discharges are presented. As a result of the study, it is understood that wastewater cannot be treated with the existing wastewater treatment plant and when the raw wastewater parameters of the existing wastewater treatment plants are analyzed, it is understood that advanced wastewater treatment plant is needed.	Eastern Black Sea region, Wastewater Treatment, Wastewater Pollution Parameters, Deep Sea Discharge
860	Long Term Technical and Economic Analysis of A Grid Tied PV Plant With System Advisor Model Software	The Fourth Industrial Revolution builds on the digital revolution and combines multiple technologies that are leading to unprecedented paradigm shifts in the economy, business, society, and for individuals. Photovoltaic (PV) plants based on renewable technologies will play an important role in shaping the future and in the realization of digital transformation in energy. For the sustainable growth of PV power plant investments, the lack of information about the life cycle of PV power plants among stakeholders must be reduced in order to minimize Levelized Cost of Electricity (LCOE). This study focused on technical and economic analysis of PV power plants which is conducted with System Advisor Model software for six different locations in Turkey.	Photovoltaics, PV, PV power plant, SAM, Renewables
869	WHITHAM MODULATION THEORY FOR (N+1) DIMENSIONAL BENJAMIN- ONO EQUATION WITH A SPECIAL INITIAL CONDITION	Dispersive shock waves (DSWs) in (n+1) dimensional Benjamin–Ono equation (nDBO) is considered using step like initial data along a paraboloid front. Employing a similarity reduction exactly reduces the study of such DSWs in(', 'n+1', ')dimensions to finding DSW solutions of(', '1+1', ')dimensional equations. With this ansatz, the nDBO equation can be exactly reduced to a Benjamin–Ono (nBO) type equation. Whitham modulation equations which describe DSW evolution in the nBO equation are derived and Riemann type variables are introduced. DSWs obtained from the numerical solutions of the corresponding Whitham systems and direct numerical simulations of the nBO equation are compared with very good agreement obtained. It is concluded that the(', 'n', '+', '1', ')DSW behavior along self similar parabolic fronts can be effectively described by the DSW solutions of the reduced(', '1+1', ')', ' dimensional equations.	Dispersive shock waves, Whitham modulation theory, Benjamin- Ono equation
870	ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGIES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH VISUAL IMPAIRMENT: CONTRIBUTION OF DESIGN IN THE FIELD OF CLOTHING	According to data of World Health Organization, it was estimated that 253 million were visually impaired worldwide in 2017 (WHO, 2017).', 'For those with moderate to total blindness and visual impairment, daily activities such as mobility, communication, education, clothing and shopping cannot be carried out independently. Assistive technologies (AT) offer solutions to contribute to the quality of life of those with visual impairments. Considering the daily obstacles', ' faced by such individuals, as a prior step for design development of alternative ATs, this paper includes an overview of ATs. Since this overview addresses a lack of applications in clothing related AT, the following survey aims to acquire feedback from people with visual impairment, focusing on clothing related issues, with the aim of making improvements in design.	Assistive Technology, Visual Impairment, Design, Clothing, Wearable Technology
871	A COOPERATIVE GAME THEORETICAL MODEL IN TEMPORARY HOUSING FOR POST?DISASTER SITUATIONS	Turkey is among the countries that are especially vulnerable to natural disasters. Throughout history, many disasters have occurred in the geography where Turkey is located. Turkey is known that a country that is connects the continents and cultures. It is provide also interactions between several tectonic plates that including the Eurasian, African, and Arabian plates through the Anatolian plate. Interactions among the plates compose active seismic region that encompasses most of Turkey. As a result of this high seismicity region, earthquake has been significant natural disaster for Turkey. Numerous buildings collapse and have damage after the severe earthquakes and the victims need to shelter to provide their needs. In this process, temporary housing is using to solve this shelter needs hence temporary housing needing urgent attention. But there is a problem about number of temporary housing demand because it is not possible to say a certain number about temporary housing needed. In this study, game theory is used to solve this problem. Our study shows that cooperative interval game theory help us to define a fair cost allocation between private organizations for supporting the housing problem by using facility location games under uncertainty.	Temporary Housing, Earthquake, Cooperative Game Theory, Uncertainty
872	EVALUATION OF LIBRARY BUILDING SPACE ORGANIZATION IN TERMS OF ERGONOMIC CRITERIAS: A CASE STUDY BAHCESEHIR UNIVERSITY LIBRARY BUILDING	"Education is a continuous process in human life. The most important institution that provides continuity of education in preschool, school and after school is the libraries. Libraries should be equipped with all materials and information required by the age.', ' ', ""It is necessary to design spaces that increase the productivity of the staff and the user's desire to use the library. Utilizing the science of ergonomics during the spatial organization will ensure the control of environmental factors and human impacts. The aim of the study is to demonstrate the necessity of ergonomic criteria and regulations for designing healthy library spaces and to contribute to the improvement of conditions. In this context, Bahcesehir library building was chosen as a case study area considering the usage density and user diversity. Firstly,"", 'the relationship between spatial organization and', 'ergonomics is discussed with its anthropometric, physiological, psychological, information, organization and safety dimensions. Secondly,the importance of ergonomics in the spatial organization of library buildings is explained.Lastly, Bahcesehir library building is investigated in terms of spatial, visual, auditory and thermal comforts. Through a survey, and on-site observation and measurement methods were used to evaluate ergonomic factors.', '', 'As a result of thestudy,ıt', ' has been determined that the furniture dimensions meet the ergonomic criterias; however,', 'they are ignored in spatial organization.', ' "	Ergonomic, Library building, Space organization
873	Maritime Investigation Reports Involving Man-Over-Board (MOB) Casualties: A Methodology for Evaluation Process	Flag states must issue their maritime investigation reports in accordance with the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) circulars with the inclusion of ‘lessons learned’ items from occurring accidents or incidents. To identify the root cause of an event, therefore to include ‘lessons learned information’ from reports, there must be enough detail of information about the investigated event presented in reports. The information included in reports may help identifying the procedural deficiencies or technical challenges. Considering the Man-Over-Board (MOB) events as a sub group of maritime accident investigations, authors systematically reviewed over 100 reports containing MOB events in this study. Reviewed reports indicated major differences in formats as well as level and type of information.', 'In this study, a systematic methodology for reviewing and reporting the overall information retrieved from maritime accident reports is presented. To cover all information from reviewed reports, 113 information items are identified. An associated standard form is developed for use in extracting information from all investigation reports. Enabling the data collected systematically from reports, issued by the world maritime accident reporting states and agencies, and successively populated into a database for overall analysis, this form is called “Maritime MOB Events Investigation Form (MEI Form)”. This paper presents the content of the MEI Form and demonstrates the methodology of use for retrieving, formatting and analysing the information from the MOB investigation reports using case examples. Benefits of collecting this data in a structured execution methodology as part of the BIG DATA project is shown.	Maritime Accident Investigation, Casualty Investigation Code, Man Over Board (MOB), Lessons Learned, Big Data, Database, Data Format, Report Forms
874	Proximate Composition of Three Different Fish (Trout, Anchovy and Whiting) Waste During Catching Season	The aim of this study was to determine the proximate composition (lipid, crude protein, crude ash and moisture) of three different fish wastes [trout (Onchoryncus mykiss), anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus), and whiting fish (Merlangius merlangus)] during the catching season (November through April). As a result of the proximate composition, it was varied among the species and months. On wet weight basis, total lipids ranged between 16.4% (January) and 30.5% (November) (w/w) for trout, 5.8% (February) and 8.9% (December) for anchovy and 2.5% (March) and 9.6% (December) for whiting fish wastes. The protein content for all species waste varied between 10.4%- 16.8% among the species studied on wet weight basis. The highest ash content estimated in trout, anchovy, and whiting fish wastes were 4.2% in January, 4.7% in April and 2.6% in December, respectively (p<0.05). Moisture content was found in the lowest trout waste (52.3%, November) and the highest whiting waste (81.4%, March). In dry weight basis, the highest lipid, crude protein and ash content in different months were found in trout waste (70.7%, November), whiting waste (65.6%, March) and whiting fish waste (20.7%, March), respectively (p<0.05). Marked significant differences basis in wet and dry weight basis were observed among fish species waste for the mean moisture, lipid, and ash contents (p<0.05).	fish waste, proximate composition, catching season, months
875	Technical Features of Nets Used Industrial Fisheries in the Western Black Sea (Sinop Province)	Specifications of fishing gears changes over time due to various factors. Place on record actual design plans of fishing gears are very important for tracking both evaluation of fishing technologies and status of fish stocks. In this study, fishery equipment of fishing boats large than 12m was examined in Sinop province. It was determined two type purse seine nets, two types bottom trawls and one midwater trawl in the region. Technical plans of the nets were recorded and created detailed plans were presented	Industrial fisheries, purse seine, trawl nets, technical plan
876	Occurrence of the Lessepsian Hemiramphus far (Hemiramphidae) in Güllük Bay, South-eastern Aegean Sea	A specimen of the spotted halfbeak,Hemiramphus far', ' with 282 mm TL has been caught by a commercial gillnet off Küçüktavşan Island, Güllük Bay at a depth of 15 m on 09 February 2019. This paper presents the first occurrence ofH. far', ' in the Bay of Güllük. At the same time, this short note was the third record ofH. far', ' for the Turkish Aegean Sea after Gökova Bay and Eski Foça.	Rare species, lessepsian, record, Güllük Bay
877	Maximum Length and Weight of Sharpsnout Seabream (Diplodus puntazzo Walbaum, 1792) for Black Sea and East Mediterranean Sea	On the shores of the Black Sea in Ordu province, a maleDiplodus puntazzo', ', 454 mm long and weighing 1186.48 g was sampled on 15 March 2019 with a trammel net that was set for demersal fish species. This individual is the largest that has been reported from the Black Sea, Sea of Marmara, Aegean Sea and eastern Mediterranean Sea.', ' 	Diplodus puntazzo, Sharpsnout seabream, Maximum size, Black Sea, Mediterranean
878	Evaluation of Line Selection Criteria of Freight Forwarders in Container Transportation	Container transportation, which can offer door-to-door integrated solutions to its customers, consists mainly of importers, exporters and shipping lines There are logistic service providers under the name of the freight forwarder for import and export companies to meet their different logistic demands, to make their dialogue with the lines more effective and to be focused them on the main activity areas. These providers, which are designated as forwarders in international literature, mediate realization of logistics activities like insurance, transportation, storage, customs clearance, packaging and so on. In order for these activities to be particularly economical, freight forwarders must select the optimal line operator. In this process, different criteria emerge that will affect the choice of freight forwarders.', 'Multi-criteria decision making that determining these criteria and examining the effect levels in the selection process and the decision making process is realized through the solution of models has emerged as a method applied of more than one enterprise in today. The problem mentioned in this study is the determination of the criteria used by the shipping contractor in selecting the container line operator, using the weighting model and using the decision model. For this reason, it was aimed to determine the criteria affecting line operator preference and to define their weight in decision support system by meeting with international transportation contractors operating in our country. For this purpose, the actual data and the current shipping demand are evaluated and the decision-making process is established by using AHP and EDAS methods.	Container Transportation, Freight Forwarder, Multi-Criteria Decision Making, AHP, EDAS
879	The Impact of Freight Rates on Pirate Attacks	The aim of this study is to determine whether freight levels in dry bulk and tanker markets have an impact on pirate attacks. The sample included in the study consists of monthly bulk and tanker freight indices and annual attack values between 2008 and 2018 periods. Annual attack values due to data constraint have been converted to monthly data by cubic transformation in order to carry out the analyzes more accurately. The results reveal that freight rates are the causes of pirate attacks, freight rates significantly affect pirate attacks on both bulk ships and tanker ships in a positive way, and freight rate changes in the bulk market explain the attacks more. This results indicate that increased freight revenues are more motivating for pirates to attack.	Pirate attacks, Freight rate, Tanker shipping, Dry bulk shipping
881	Strong Ties Between Unsettled Global Economy & Maritime Trade: An Assessment of the General Situation of Today’s Maritime Economy	Maritime sector has been severely affected by the economic crisis of the years 2007-2008. The process of recuperation was quite long for the world economy as well as global maritime industry. With sudden decrease of cargo volumes on board of even from globally well-known shipowners’ till the medium and small size ship management companies/shipowners were in urgent need of the cargo to fill up their vessels and to be able to compensate running cost of their fleets. Strategic partnerships among shipping lines have been emerged. The recovery period has been quite slow while some shipping lines declare bankruptcy and had to close down the business. Therefore, this review article aims to present current status quo of global maritime economy and the evaluation of existing and emerging trade lanes in recent years. This article helps researchers to point up the assessment of the general situation of world maritime trade. Remarkable articles on maritime economy, shipping business and international trade are evaluated in this paper.	Maritime economics, shipping business, international trade, global crisis, world trade, shipping lines
892	A DESIGN FOR PREVENTION OF VIOLATION OF DISABLED PARKING SPACES: DDPS (DETERRENT DISABLED PARKING SYSTEM)	Limited public awareness and insufficient parking spaces result in the conscious or unconscious occupation of disabled parking by other drivers. According to the law on traffic penalties, violation of disabled parking is punishable by penalty and driving reputation points. However, it is only possible to control and implement this law under ideal conditions. This study describes in detail the Disincentive Disabled Parking System (DDPS), a distinctive design, planned in order to control disabled parking and to allow the implementation of penal sanctions in case of violation and the algorithm for the system is presented. The design ismodeled', ' with Arduino UNO, ultrasonic distance sensor, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), LCD screen and various connection elements. The performance of the system is tested with three different scenarios. It is observed that system performs successfully for all three, with a 76% accuracy. The results are discussed and ways of improvement are indicated.	smart parking, disabled people park, RFID, Parking Occupancy
895	EFFECT OF MILL FEED SIZE DISTRIBUTION AND GRINDING MEDIA SIZE ON SIZE REDUCTION PERFORMANCE OF AN INDUSTRIAL SCALE VIBRATING BALL MILL (VBM) IN CEMENT CLINKER GRINDING	In this study, open circuit single and two stage industrial scale vibrating ball mill (VBM) grinding performance of raw (uncrushed) cement clinker was investigated using different mill feed size distributions and grinding ball size configurations. The mill was modelled for the test cases using perfect mixing mathematical modelling approach. Different ball size configurations were applied in the grinding tests to estimate the effect of ball size configuration on grinding performance. Proposed coarse ball size configuration (30-20-15mm) was determined to increase the size reduction performance of single stage VBM grinding when coarse mill feed material was fed to the VBM (F50=185?m) as compared to the finer mill feed case (F50=24?m). VBM grinding performance was determined to increase with finer mill feed material (F50=24?m) and application of finer ball size configuration (10-8-6mm) in single stage grinding case as compared to the two stage grinding case.	Grinding, Vibrating ball mill, Mathematical modelling, Cement clinker
896	RECOVERY OF ZINC AND MANGANESE FROM WASTE ALKALINE BATTERY POWDER BY TWO-STAGE LEACHING PROCESS	In this work, the selective dissolution of zinc and manganese in the waste alkaline battery powders was investigated by applying two-stage leaching method. In the first-stage of leaching, zinc in the battery powder was dissolved using NaOH solutions. The solid residue containing manganese was separated from the solution by filtration and used in the second leaching step. Sulfuric acid solutions containing molasses was used as leaching agent in the second-stage leaching treatment. In each leaching step, the effects of solution concentration, temperature, stirring speed and solid to liquid ratio on the dissolution of zinc and manganese were examined. The findings obtained showed that the experimental parameters had a significant effect on the dissolution of zinc and manganese. It was observed that the dissolution efficiency for both metal increased with an increase in the solution concentration, temperature and stirring speed, and with a decrease in the solid to liquid ratio. At the experimental conditions of a sodium hydroxide concentration of 1.5 mol/L, a reaction temperature of 40 °C, a solid to liquid ratio of 2/500 g/mL, a stirring speed of 500 rpm, and a reaction time of 120 min., it was determined that 77% of zinc in waste battery powder was dissolved. While concentration of sulfuric acid, temperature, solid to liquid ratio, stirring speed, and reaction time were 1.5 mol/L, 50 °C, 2/500 g/mL, 500 rpm, and 120 min. respectively, it was found that 85% of manganese in the leach residue was dissolved.	Waste battery, Zinc, Manganese, Two-stage leaching
897	AN ANALYSIS AND COUNTERMEASURES OF FATAL ACCIDENTS CAUSED BY FIREDAMP EXPLOSIONS IN UNDERGROUND COAL MINES IN TURKEY	Fatal accidents in underground coal mines in Turkey are common and experienced frequently. The major accident categories for underground coal mining in Turkey are gas related accidents (firedamp and outbursts), roof falls, flooding, fire and transport. In recent years, coal mine gas related accidents in Turkey, which are usually caused by firedamp and outbursts, are still threatening miners’ lives. Firedamp explosions are majorly serious mine accidents that can occur quickly and cause great deal damage. In this study, work-related accidents caused by firedamp and another gas accidents in Turkey between the years 2010-2016 were analyzed. As a result of these analyses, the number of deaths in underground coal mines in the past 7 years is 550 and the fatality rate is found to be 96.86%. The percentage of gases as the cause of the deaths is 70.18%. In this study, countermeasures are proposed that can prevent and control firedamp explosions and other gas related accidents.	Underground coal mining, Fatal accident analysis, Firedamp explosions, Occupational health and safety, Statistical analysis
899	THE USE OF DIFFERENT BREAKAGE TEST PROTOCOLS IN MULTICOMPARTMENT BALL MILL MODELLING	Modelling of grinding circuits is crucial for circuit design and optimization. Determination of breakage distribution function of the materials is important for accurate and reliable modelling. In this study, the model structure was focused on using separate breakage tests for each chamber. Within the study, sampling studies were performed around the grinding circuit containing 2-chamber ball mill and inside the mill and, particle size distributions of collected samples were determined. Then mass balance studies were performed. Single particle drop weight test for the chamber-1 while Hardgrove test for the second chamber of the mill was carried out then size-dependent breakage distribution functions were calculated. The study is the first application of using Hardgrove technique in the ball mill model. Each chamber was modelled separately by using Perfect Mixing Model. Simulation results showed that the product estimations were accurate for the chamber-1 that the Hardgrove test was suitable for the chamber-2.	Grinding, Breakage, Modelling, Hardgrove, Drop weight
900	CONCENTRATION OF VALUABLE METALS FROM PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARDS USING MINERAL PROCESSING METHODS	With the developing technology in recent years, the variety and production of electronic products has increased rapidly. The amount of unused products increases with high consumption rate, these products are disposed as scrap. These types of scrap, called electronic waste, cause serious damage to the environment and livings due to the harmful elements and components. Apart from harmful compounds, the high content of precious metals in e-waste compared to the natural sources makes them very attractive for metal recovery. Print circuit boards (PCB’s), which comprise 3% of the e-wastes, attract attention with high Cu, Au and Ag contents. Within the scope of this study, comminution and classification processes were applied and then shaking table was subjected to -2 , + 0.5 and -0.5 mm fractions to recover Cu, Au, Ag from PCB’s. As a result of the enrichment tests, 62% wt. of the feed was obtained with 88.2% Au, 95.3% Cu and 93.6% Ag recoveries.	Recovery, Valuable metals, Printed circuit boards, Mineral processing
901	MINERALOGICAL CAHARACTERIZATION OF KARAÇAM LATERITIC NICKEL ORE AND DETERMINATION OF ITS PHYSICAL BENEFICIATION DEPORTMENT	"In this study, the detailed mineralogy and beneficiation possibilities of a lateritic nickel ore from Mihalıççık-Eskişehir region was investigated. Quantitative mineralogical analysis of the ore was performed using MLA (Mineral Liberation Analyzer); ernienickelite and pimellite minerals were determined as nickel bearing minerals. Heavy liquid test was performed to determine the amenability of the ore to gravity separation. In the scope of beneficiation studies, optical sorting, dry and wet magnetic separation and microwave heating were applied. As a result of the tests, there was no significant improvement in nickel grade. Only a slight decrease in the arsenic grade of the microwave-heated ore was observed. The presence of ernienickelite locked with very fine silicates (usually clays and Si oxides), supports the fact that the ore cannot be beneficiated easily by physical beneficiation methods."	Lateritic nickel, Quantitative mineralogy, Concentration
903	Determination of The Possible Effects of Non-Structural Risks Originating From Earthquake in Schools By Using Risk Assessment Matrix Method	Regulations, audits and controls related to structural systems in our country are adequate for the construction of schools, while regulations, information, practices etc. related to non-structural systems are not sufficient. This situation causes many other problems such as the randomization of non-structural elements in schools and the random placement of them without considering a possible disaster effect. As a result, in schools, risks and dangers arising from non-structural elements are invited. The evaluation of non-structural systems as well as structural systems at the project stage of the schools will eliminate the risks and consequently the dangers. In this study, non-structural risks and possible effects of schools were converted into mathematical expressions using the L Matrix Method and the risk score of each school was calculated. Finally, the risk scores of three schools were compared and risk levels were determined. The aim of the study is to share the proposals with the relevant institutions in order to reduce the non-structural risks and eliminate the risks by making on-site determinations in the schools selected as samples.	Kaynaşlı, Earthquake, Risk, Non-Structural Elements in Schools, L Type Matrix
904	Investigation of performance characteristics using Stochastic Reactor Model in a biodiesel pilot-fueled natural gas engine	In this study, the effects of different biodiesel pilot fuel injection pressures on performance characteristics of a natural gas engine were investigated using ‘Kinetics & SRM Engine Suite’ software which is based on stochastic reactor model (SRM). This advanced software uses chemical kinetic mechanisms of fuels to simulate combustion process of the engine. ‘Methyl decanoate/methyl-9-decenoate/n-heptane’ reduced chemical kinetic mechanism including 71 species and 217 reactions were defined as a biodiesel surrogate fuel chemical kinetic mechanism to represent biodiesel fuel in this study. Theoretical model set by the way of software tools was validated by experimental data. Then, simulation was run in three different stochastic particle numbers (50, 100, and 150) to investigate engine performance characteristics of a biodiesel pilot-fueled natural gas engine. It is observed that as pilot fuel injection pressure increases, engine torque and brake power enhance, but brake specific fuel consumption decreases. Furthermore, various stochastic particle numbers used in the simulation did not dramatically affect data of engine performance characteristics simulated.	Dual fuel engine, Natural gas, Biodiesel pilot fuel, Stochastic Reactor Model, Engine Performance
905	Do Commodity Prices Matter for Second Hand Values? An Empirical Research on Capesize Market	In this study, it is aimed to investigate the relationship between second hand values of Capesize ships and iron ore prices which is the basic loads of Capesize type ships. In this respect, the asymmetric causality test has been used to determine the causal relationships between the shocks contained in the series. This test examines the nonlinear relationships by separating the positive and negative shocks in the series. Because the reactions of the agents in the market may also change according to the type of shock (news). The data set used in the study consists of 227 monthly observations covering the dates between July 1999 and May 2018. According to the results, positive shocks in iron ore price are the cause of positive shocks in the value of 5-year-old Capesize vessel. Furthermore, the negative shocks in the iron ore price are the cause of negative shocks in the value of 5 years old Capesize vessel. These results are hoped to bring a different perspective to the literature and open a new window to the researchers. In addition, iron ore prices for those who plan to invest in this sector can be said to be the leading indicator for second hand Capesize vessel values. Increasing shocks in commodity prices trigger shocks which increase the ship value. Therefore, realizing the investment strategies by following the commodity prices can reduce the risks caused by uncertainty and even lead to significant profit opportunities', '.	Capesize ship, Second hand value, Commodity price, Asymmetric causality
906	First record of Gonostoma denudatum, Rafinesque 1810 (Family: Gonostomatidae) from Mersin Bay (Northeastern Mediterranean, Turkey)	One specimen ofGonostoma denudatumwas caugh tby a commercial trawler (Boat length: 26.15 m and Engine Power: 400 Hp) at a depth of about 595m on 08 July 2019 from the Erdemli coast (Mersin Bay, Turkey). After the capture, the fresh specimen was identified, photographed, measured to the nearest millimetre, and weighed to the nearest gram. The present paper reports the first record ofG. denudatum', ' in the northeastern Mediterranean, Turkey. AlthoughG. denudatumhas been previouslyreported from the Mediterranean Sea, this species is extremely rare in the eastern part of the Mediterranean Sea.Thus, the present study is an indication of the occurrence ofG. denudatumin the eastern Mediterranean Sea coast of Turkey. Morphometric and meristic characters of the specimen are given in the text.	Deep Sea Fish, Record, Eastern Mediterranean Sea, Turkey
907	Occurrence of Pilotfish Naucrates ductor (Carangidae) in Izmir Bay (Aegean Sea)	This paper reports the occurrence ofNaucrates ductor', ' in Izmir Bay, northeastern Aegean Sea. A specimen, measuring 275 mm in TL, was captured from Urla coast, Izmir Bay on 13 November 2018. This short note presents additional record ofN. ductor', ' on the ichthyofaunal richness of the Turkish Aegean Sea.	Rare species, record, Izmir Bay
908	The Seasonally Determination of Disc Diameter-Weight Relationship of Moon Jellyfish Aurelia aurita in the Black Sea Coasts of Turkey	In this study, seasonal disc diameter-weight relationship of moon jellyfish (', 'Aurelia aurita) were determined in the Black Sea coasts of Turkey. The samples of jellyfish were collected monthly from Sinop coasts in the southern Black Sea between December 2012 and November 2013 with plankton net. A total 1358 moon jellyfish were measurement in the study. Mean length and weight of all individuals were established, 8.3±0.10 cm and 43.2±1.58 g respectively. Disc diameter-weight relationship of moon jellyfish were calculated as Ww=0.1207L', '2.5887', ' for general, Ww=0.1251L', '2.5567', ' for autumn, Ww=0.0815L', '2.7181', ' for winter, Ww=0.1012 L', '2.6813', ' for spring and Ww=0.1289L', '2.6844', ' for summer', '. The results showed that “a” and “b” value of moon jellyfish varied with seasons in the Black Sea coasts.	Moon jellyfish, Aurelia aurita, Disc diameter-weight relationship, Season, Black Sea
909	Port Management Students’ Metaphoric Perceptions Related to the Port Concept	Port’s stakeholders’ perception related to the port is important for the port sector. Positive perceptions of the stakeholders will positively affect the performance and development of the sector. This study is a metaphor study to determine the perceptions of Port Management students, who are one of the future stakeholders of the sector, about port. The study was carried out with 121 participants. Metaphors and their categories were determined by using a five-step method for the analysis of the data obtained. Findings show that the participants produced 66 metaphors related to the port concept. These metaphors were distributed into 16 conceptual categories. While the port perception did not differ according to the variables of class and gender, a difference was determined according to experience variable.	Port Perception, Metaphoric Research, Student Perceptions
910	The Effect of Transportation Solutions in Reduction of Traffic Compression	Nowadays, as a result of the increase in financial opportunities and technological developments, traffic congestions and densities started to increase in cities and air pollution and time losses started to increase. With the increase in the time people spend in traffic, city managers and transportation planners have aimed to prevent this problem by making new roads and new transportation investments. However, new transportation investments and roads could not prevent traffic congestion. In this study, the effects of transportation investments on traffic congestion will be analyzed with the help of PTV Group Vissim software. The software developed a micro building model in the port corridor and analyzed the current traffic situation in the planning of traffic counts. The proposal compares the contribution of the scripts to the solution of the projects planned to be planned on the corridor, test rooms with the same traffic volume.', ' 	transportation, traffic safety, traffic congestion, planning
911	ORGANIC SOLAR CELL WITH SPDA: AG NANOWIRE NETWORK	In this study, Sulfonated poly (diphenylamine): Ag nanowire network', ' transparent conductive electrode', 'was prepared that is expected to have high transparency and low resistance for organic solar cells. The resistance value was 10?sq', '-1', ' and the optical permeability value was 88% with Sulfonated poly (diphenylamine): Ag nanowire network electrode.By using the electrode in organic solar cell, the solar cell efficiency was obtained 2.7%. The preparedSulfonated poly (diphenylamine): Ag nanowire network', ' electrode is an alternative to Indium tin oxide for use in organic electronic devices as a promising electrode and can also be used in flexible electronic applications.	Transparent Conductive Electrode, Organic Solar Cell
928	Comparison of the Effect of Color Spaces on Classification Performance in Identification of Haploid Maize Seeds Using Color Moments and Support Vector Machines	Doubled haploid maize breeding technique provides significant advantages over conventional breeding methods both in terms of shortening breeding time and obtaining 100% homozygous lines. One of the important works in doubled haploid maize breeding method is the separation of haploid and diploid seeds obtained as a result of hybridization. Today, this process is performed by hand, as well as loss of labor and time causes high classification errors. In this study, a computer vision based method for identification of haploid maize seeds was proposed. In the study conducted on the dataset of 3000 maize seeds, seed embryos were segmented by k-means clustering method. In the RGB, HSV and Lab color spaces, the first four degrees of color moments are extracted for each color channel. Thus, 12 features were used for each color space. Obtained features were classified with support vector machine. To obtain more general results, the 10-fold cross-validation method was repeated 20 times. According to the experimental results, the best performance was measured with 87,03% accuracy, 80,15% sensitivity and 93,00% specificity in Lab color space.	maize, haploid identification, color spaces, color moments, support vector machines
938	Effect of Portland Cement, Silica Fume, Fly Ash Combinations On Pressurized Water Permeability of Self-Compacting Mortars	The water permeability has great importance with respect to durability for concrete structures subjected to pressure and mortars used in construction and repair of water tanks, dam structures, and some industrial buildings. In this work, the water permeability under pressure was investigated in binary and ternary self-compacting mortars with Portland cement, silica fume and fly ash, and at their combinations. Water penetration depths were determined in these samples. The water penetration depths were decreased in the binary sample containing Portland cement and 10% silica fume, and the ternary sample containing Portland cement, 10% silica fume and 35% fly ash.	Self-compacted mortar, silica fume, fly ash, pressurized water penetration
939	Investigate the Influence of Different UHPC Laminates Thickness to the Flexural Capacity	The aim of this study is to investigate behavior of reinforced concrete beams with insufficient flexural strength which are reinforced by ultra high performance concrete (UHPC) were examined experimentally. UYPC with 3% fiber volume was used for manufacturing laminates which will be used for reinforcing. UHPC having three different thickness (30 mm, 50 mm and 70 mm) where one of them will be control sample was used for observing effect of change in thickness over flexural behavior were manufactured and applied over reinforced concrete beams. RC Beams were tested under four -point bending loads. Increase in load carrying capacity varying with 20%-58% rates were obtained in samples which were reinforced with UHPC.	Ultra high performance concrete, reinforced concrete beam, flexural behavior in reinforced beam
941	Developing a Cross-Section Model by K-Means Clustering Algorithm for Determining the Underground Deformations	The scientific studies on determination of deformations for underground structures by terrestrial laser scanner have been developing with the increasing of the usage of terrestrail laser scanners in underground structures. One of the most known research subject is the determination of deformation from the cross-sections which derived from point clouds acquired by terrestrail laser scanners. Because of the difficulty of proccessing the thousand of points on cross sections developing a best-fit cross-section model from raw data has been studied by many researchers in recent years. In this study first a new cross-section model has been developed by using k-means clustering machine learning algorithm from a raw point cloud data then deformation analyses have been carrried out on these models. Also mesh models have been created from point cloud data and a standard deformation study have been performed on mesh models. The deformation results of k-means algorithm and mesh models have been compared and advantage of k-means algortihm has been revealed	Terrestrian Laser Scanner, Cross-section Analyse, Deformation Analyse, K-means Algorithm
942	Groundwater Flow Dynamics In The Demre Coastal Plain Aquifer (SW Turkey) Based On Continuous-Time and Discrete-Time Groundwater Head, Temperature And Specific Conductance Data	The main source of livelihood in  the Demre plain is greenhouse agriculture and the irrigation water demand is  provided by groundwater. Groundwater level is affected by the use of  groundwater over time in Demre coastal aquifer. The security of long term  water and food production in the plain depends on sustainable use of the  alluvium aquifer. In this study, groundwater level is measured at 24 wells  located in Demre plain between January 2014 - May 2015 for 6 periods. In  addition, electrical conductivity-temperature-level measurements are taken in  4 wells at different periods by automatic data-loggers. When data obtained  from the data-loggers are associated with the daily precipitation data, it is  determined that groundwater level increases after the precipitation in all  wells. The long-term groundwater level rise continuation shows that alluvium  aquifer feds firstly by precipitation over aquifer and then later seepage  from limestone. When the change of the specific electrical conductivity of  groundwater in the Demre coastal aquifer is examined over time, there is no  significant change in conductivity in some wells during the year, while in  some cases it is determined that there is diluted in groundwater ion  concentration when precipitation reached the ground directly or with a short  infiltration. In this study, it is determined that Demre coastal aquifer  which is fed by precipitation and lateral seepage has quasi steady-state  groundwater level in long term. This indicates that aquifer storage is not  changed.', '	groundwater level, data-logger, Demre coastal aquifer
943	A Novel Solution Approach For Travelling Salesman Problem: TPORT	In this study, a novel solution algorithm taking advantage of the relationship between traveling salesman and transportation problems that are the most studied problems of operations research field since 1800s, is proposed. Many initial solution algorithms have been proposed for transportation problems. In this study, an approach called TPORT is proposed for the initial solution for the symmetric traveling salesman problem with similar approach and intuition. The performance of the initial solutions is developed with 2-Opt algorithm. As the developed heuristic has similarities with the nearest neighbor algorithm, the solution performances of the traveling salesman problems were compared with the solutions of the nearest neighbor algorithm and 2-Opt. The proposed approach has been analyzed by the well-known traveling salesman test instances and a group of test instances from the literature. The average solution performance of the proposed method was 26%, while the performance of the nearest neighbor algorithm was 16%. However, when the solutions of TPORT and nearest neighbor algorithm were developed with 2-Opt, the average deviation was obtained as 4% and 3%, respectively. In this context, it can be argued that the proposed solution approach is competitive in terms of solution performance. Also, there is a huge difference between the proposed method and the nearest neighbor algorithm in terms of solution times. As a result, it has been shown that the proposed method with 2-Opt improvement is superior for both the solution speed and the quality of the solutions. In particular, as the problem size is increased, the solution time of the comparable methods is almost constant, while the solution time of the nearest neighbor algorithm shows an asymptotic trend.	Traveling Salesman Problem, Transportation Problem, Nearest Neigbor Algortithm, 2-Opt
948	EVALUATION OF GRANITE WASTES AS ABRASIVE IN NATURAL STONE CUTTING WITH ABRASIVE WATERJET	Considerable amounts of wastes are generated as a result of the production and processing', 'operations in the natural stone sector. These wastes cause some environmental problems', '(topography change, surface/underground water pollution, air/visual pollution and so on). In this', 'study, potential use of the granite wastes (coarse and fine size) as abrasive in natural stone cutting', 'with abrasive waterjet (AWJ) are investigated. The limestone samples used in the tests are cut', 'longitudinally. The cutting parameters are kept constant during the tests and the cutting depth is', 'considered for assessing the cutting performance. The study results show that granite wastes', 'meet the requirements as abrasive in terms of reaction with water, hardness, toughness and', 'shape. Besides, it is determined that a great majority (96% of waste slurry) of the fine materials', 'derived from the waste sludge doesn’t have required size for natural stone cutting with the AWJ.', 'Additionally, it is concluded that materials obtained from the coarse granite wastes by crushing,', 'grinding and sieving could be used as abrasive.	Natural stones, Granite waste, Abrasive, Abrasive waterjet
949	STATISTICAL QUALITY CONTROL WITH FUZZY LOGIC METHOD USING TOTAL COLOR DIFFERENCE PARAMETER: AN APPLICATION IN ALUMINUM PRODUCTION PLANT	"A fuzzy mean and range control charts were used to monitor the production process. Fuzzy', 'control charts were validated through a case study at the aluminum production company by', 'collecting data from the factory and comparing it to the traditional Shewhart control charts which', 'have been already applied by the factory for monitoring the process. The results reveal that', 'the proposed fuzzy control charts could detect abnormal shifts in the production process more', 'accurately than the traditional Shewhart control charts, as they had used more information from', 'the process.', 'In this study, fuzzy statistical quality control application was applied to Eti Aluminum Co. aluminum', 'production plant. Total color difference parameter (?E) data were studied using fuzzy observation', 'on an aluminum production plant. For this purpose, color parameters of the aluminum production', 'plant were evaluated using triangular fuzzy number (TFN) and fuzzy process capability indices', '(PCIs). Process capability analysis was carried out to determine whether there was sufficient of', 'the production process with the information obtained. The Cp, Cpu and Cpl indices were 1.267,', '1.263, 1.257; 1.419, 1.414, 1.408 and 1.115, 1.111, 1.106, respectively. According to these values,', 'it has been determined that the processes meet the needs."	Fuzzy control charts, Statistical process control, Process capability indices, Aluminium, Total color difference
950	FINITE-ELEMENTS METHOD AIDED EXAMINATION OF THE SELECTION OF STEEL PROFILES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE ROCK MASS USED IN TRAPEZOIDAL CROSS-SECTIONED ROADWAY SUPPORT	In this study, selection of appropriate profile material and a profile section by using finite elements', 'method during the design studies of the mine roadway support having a cross-section of 5,75', 'm2 was aimed. The support type was trapezoidal sectioned rigid steel support. In parallel with', 'the aim of this study, load-profile section optimization studies were carried out by changing the', 'profile material and profile section while the cross-sectional area of the gallery is kept constant', 'with considering the load acting on the subsurface mine openings. It was determined that using', 'of TH29 profile with 31Mn4 material was safer than NPI200 profile with S235 material, according', 'to the displacement and stress distribution for the subsurface mine openings and the support', 'spacing can be increased from 1500 mm to 2000 mm as a result, the installation costs could be', 'reduced by using TH29 section profile.	Trapeziodal ground support, Steel profile, Finite elements method, Analysis
956	GIS BASED DETERMINATION OF AIR POLLUTANT EMISSION QUANTITIES IN TRANSPORTATION	There is a global increase in transportation in urban areas. As a result, the levels of pollutants from motor vehicles in the city atmosphere can sometimes reach levels that threaten human health because of the meteorological and topographical conditions of the region. The aim of this study are to investigate the studies on the emission-related emission amounts by Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and to determine the air pollutant emissions from the vehicles going to Eskişehir Technical University's İki Eylül Campus by network analysis. In order to reduce emissions in the existing electric city buses, the emission impact of two different routes between the Yunus Emre Campus and the İki Eylül Campus of the Anadolu University was calculated by network analysis. ArcGIS network analysis tool was used in the analysis process. In this study, appropriate emission factors were selected from the EMEP / CORINAIR emission factor database to vehicle categories, engine technology and fuel types, air traffic pollutant emissions, bus programs and personal vehicle numbers and network analyzes were performed. The aim of the network analysis in the study is to compare the traffic conditions of different models to find an ideal network model to guide road design and development.	Network analiz, CBS, air quality
965	Carbon Footprint in Vehicle Routing And an Industrial Application	Most companies have a logistics network and come with a carbon footprint. It’s a requirement in terms of sustainability of the transport tools are routing allaround in this network and the providing of a low carbon footprint. In this study, the routing problem of personnel services of a company has been mentioned. And the total carbon dioxicle emission is tryed to reduce. Application of the austerity algorithm, one of the common solution methods, has been perfomed by calculating carbon footprint with Tier-1 approaching. At the of the application, there is a %24,7, reduction in carbon dioxide emission, %24,5 reduction in the cost in this company with the recommended route.	Vehicle Routing Problem, Carbon Footprint, Saving Algorithm, Tier Approach
968	Experimental Investigation of the Effect of Graphene Oxide (GO)-Distilled Water Nanofluid Usage on Heat Transfer Increment In Circular Tubes Having Different Diameters	In this study, increment of convective heat transfer and pressure drop of graphene oxide (GO)-distilled water nanofluid with volumetric concentration of 0,01% in circular copper straight tubes having inner diameters of 12 mm and 16 mm, length of 1830 mm and with constant wall heat flux was experimentally investigated. In addition, numerical calculations were performed as three-dimensional and steady by solving Navier-Stokes and energy equation using ANSYS-FLUENT program which is the finite volumes method with the assuming of single phase fluid. The effects of volumetric flow rate, heat flux and diameter of the tube were experimentally researched on the convective heat transfer coefficient and the pressure drop of the GO-distilled water nanofluid and the obtained values of convective heat transfer coefficient for the distilled water were compared with determined results from corresponding correlations. Results were presented as the variation of convective heat transfer coefficient and Nu number values at the values of different flow rates and heat fluxes for different tube diameters. And also, the variations of wall surface temperature and convective heat transfer coefficient values of the tubes were examined as numerical and experimental comparison. The obtained results showed that h and Nusselt number values of nanofluid increased with increasing of volumetric flow rate and heat flux and the highest increment values were reached at the pipe with 16 mm inner diameter. The increment value of average convective heat transfer coefficient of the GO-distilled water nanofluid was 34,88% at the flow rate of 1,5 L/min. (Re=1981) and the heat flux of 3043,94 W/m2 (350 W) for the tube with 16 mm inner diameter.	Nanofluid, graphen oxide, convective heat transfer coefficient, pressure drop
971	Comparison of AHP-TOPSIS and AHP-VIKOR Methods in Product Selection in terms of Inventory Management	Firms must develop and implement effective inventory policies that minimize costs and maximize profits in today's market conditions where extraordinary competition is experienced. Inventory has an important place in the total assets of manufacturing enterprises. Implementation of effective inventory management policies for this important item is crucial for the future of firms. Firms can meet customer needs more effectively by controlling fewer inventories that they classify according to their importance level. In this study, which is prepared by taking advantage of this point of view, application is presented that applies multi-criteria decision-making methods to determine the most important product in terms of inventory management. In the process of determining the product in the most important according to criteria determined, AHP method which is frequently used in the literature is applied for calculation weights of criteria. These weights are used in TOPSIS and VIKOR methods and results of these two methods are compared.	AHP, Inventory management, Multi-criteria decision making, TOPSIS, VIKOR
972	Optimum Design Of Brake Pedal Using Topology Optimization Method Intended For Weight Reduction On The Formula SAE Car	In this study, structural optimization of a brake pedal is carried out to reduce the component weights for the Formula SAE vehicle, with compensatable costs. Brake pedals are designed to comply with the rules set by the Formula SAE competition committee. In the brake pedal design, aluminium 7075-T6 material is chosen because of its lightweight, technical features and cost advantage. Topology optimization has been done to provide the best design of the brake pedal. The material distribution method is chosen in topology optimization. As the first step of topology optimization, the design volume is created and optimization conditions are defined. For the topology optimization, the design area is the design variable, stress is constraint and weight is the aim of optimization is defined. New brake pedal design has been created within topology optimization and production constraints. The new design is 11% lighter than the first design. For the purpose of reducing the vehicle weight, the cost increase rate is regarded as compensatable because the weight reduction is the priority criterion. Although the stress value is increased by 6%, this value is much lower than the constraint value and strength is in the desired values. At the same time, the displacement value decreased by 5%.	Formula SAE, Araçta ağırlık azaltılması, Topoloji Optimizasyon, Aluminium 7075-T6
973	Bruise Detection Using Faster R-CNN	In this study, it is aimed to classify of the apples as bruised and robust by using Faster R-CNN which is one of the convolutional neural network methods on images taken from apple fruit. In the proposed model, the process steps are the image acquisition-preprocessing, the determination of the caries regions, and the classification of the apples. During the image acquisition-preprocessing phase, a NIR camera is used, which is located within a designed image acquisition platform. In the study, a total of 1200 images were obtained from 6 different angles of each of a total of 200 apples, 100 of which were bruised and 100 of which were robust. In the pre-processing phase, adaptive histogram equalization, edge detection, morphological operations are applied to these images, respectively. Caries were identified with the Faster R-CNN model trained using new images with improved visibility by applying preprocessing. In classification phase, 84.95% correct classification rate has been reached in the detection of bruised and robust apples. As a result, it is thought that the proposed model can be used for automatic detection of bruised and robust apples in juice food industry.	Bruised apple detection, image processing, classification, convolutional neural network, Faster R-CNN
974	Investigation of the optimum conditions of immobilized and free laccase enzyme and its use in decolorization process	In this study, Laccase enzyme (L) from Tramatesversicolor was entrapped into poly(N-isopropylacryl amide)-calcium alginate (P(NIPA)-CaAlj) beads The properties of the immobilized enzyme and use of enzymatic decolorization processes were investigated and compared with those of the free enzyme. Michaelis-Menten constant (Km) and maximum reaction rate (Vmax) values were found to be 1.70x10', '-2', ' mM and 2.08x10', '-3', ' mM.min', '-1', ' for free enzyme respectively. Km and Vmax values were found as 4.80x10', '-2', ' mM and 8.70 x 10', '-3', ' mM.min', '-1', ' for entrapped enzymes respectively. Optimum pH was determined as 5.0 and 6.0 and optimum temperature determined as 40', 'o', 'C and 45', 'o', 'C for free laccase and entrapped laccase respectively. After 30 days of storage at 4o', 'C free laccase retained 60 % of its original activity. Also after 30 days of storage at 4o', 'C, entrapped enzymes were retained 83 % its original activity. Immobilized enzyme was used repeatedly 10 times, were retained 77 % of its original activities. Percent decolorization of methyl orange by free enyzme and entrapped enyzmes were found to be 73% and 70%, respectively.	Laccase, immobilization, entrapment, calcium-alginate, N-isopropylacyrylamide, decolorization
976	Optimization of Wet Grinding Parameters of Calcite Ore in Stirred Ball Mill	This study focused on ultra-fine grinding of calcite powder (CaCO3) using a vertical stirred ball mill. The influences of various operating parameters such as stirrer speed (rpm), ball filling ratio (J), powder filling ratio (fc), solid ratio (wt.%) and grinding time were studied under wet conditions. The experiments were carried out in a batch mode of operation. The experimental results were evaluated based upon product size (d50), specific surface area (m2/g) and width of particle size distribution. As a result of this work, the optimum grinding test conditions were found to be 840 rpm for stirrer speed, 0.70 for ball filling ratio, 0.100 for powder filling ratio, 50% for solid ratio and 20 min for grinding time. It was also observed that stirrer speed, ball filling ratio and grinding time were directly proportional whereas powder filling ratio and solid ratio were inversely proportional to product fineness and specific surface area. The width of particle size distribution decreased with decreasing product size for all grinding conditions.	Stirred mill, Wet grinding, Comminution, Ultra-fine grinding, Calcite, Shape of size distribution
977	Design and Evaluation of a Multi-Mode Robotic Arm Orthosis using Musculoskeletal Simulation	Robotic upper extremity orthoses have been used in rehabilitation for therapy of neuromuscular disorders and successful implementations are demonstrated by numerous clinical results. Majority of researchers focused on orthotic devices enabling basic therapy mode operations. However, there is still need for new orthotic designs which facilitates therapy modes and assistance for daily life activities in coherence. In this work, design of a multi-mode two DoF robotic arm orthosis is introduced. The designed robotic orthosis is implemented in simulation and tested with a human arm musculoskeletal model, for compliant operation. It uses model based computed torque controller and is tested for multi-mode operation. The performance is evaluated for compliant operation of “Assistive” and “Resistive” rehabilitation modes. Performance tests yielded encouraging results for future developments.	Robotic arm orthosis, Model-based controller, Musculoskeletal modelling, Simulation
978	Investigation of Noise Induced Hearing Loss with Logistic Regression Analyses in an Underground Metal Mine	When considered in terms of the risks involved, the mining is a sector that is highly likely to have occupational diseases when compared to other sectors. In order to prevent occupational diseases completely, it is necessary to determine occurrence conditions of occupational diseases and take preventive measures. In this study, the relationship between noise levels and noise induced hearing losses in a metal mine operated with underground production method was investigated by logistic regression analysis. Parameters affecting noise induced hearing loss were determined as the noise levels that the employees are exposed to, the noise levels in the environment, occupational groups, age and experience. As a result of the study, the most effective parameters for noise induced hearing loss were determined.	Noise induced hearing loss, Mining, Logistic regression analysis
997	Teenagers with autism Related to Children's Park 2-8 in the Istanbul Provincial Parental Opinions and suggestions	"In this study problems in the parks in İstanbul being experienced by children with autism were examined.', 'The study comprises the', 'children with autism aged between 2-8 who are living in İstanbul.', 'Three separate studies have been conducted in this research.These include literature search,conducting interviews with the parents of children with autism spectrum disorders andexamination of the stages in performing data analysis.', 'Results of the study were separately evaluated with sub-theme titles. ', ""Children's play areashould be created with an appropriate understanding of planning in qualitative and quantitative terms at both projecting and implementation phases of the parks."", 'The areas of the parks utilized are tempting to be unnatural, due to some artificial materials such as rubber, plastic and metal being used, which cause the autistic children to be exposed too much heavy metals, which should also be restricted as much as possible."	Open green spaces, parks, disability, autism, İstanbul
998	Significance of Artificial Intelligence in Science and Technology	"Intelligence is composed of harmonious and proportional connection of different human abilities among which are mind, cleverness, rationality, intuition, ambition, interest, culture, belief, scientific information treatment and alike gifts given by Allah. Every individual has intelligence level at different scales and levels; there is no one who is immune of these abilities. The intellectual intelligence might be at the static level without any research and development for the betterment of human beings in the society. Although natural human intelligence has been in existence since the creation of man and woman (Adam and Eve), but it took centuries to reach todays intellectual level after a series of philosophical thinking and logical propositions. Unfortunately, today, in many disciplines and societies human intelligence reflection to science and technology has been overlooked and consequently such societies are lacking behind well developed countries. This paper provides brief review and suggestions for artificial intelligence significance through the historical perspective and methodological (models and machines) aspects. It is advised that for innovative inventions or at least partial modification of existing scientific and technologically available methodologies human intelligence must shed light rather than classical, repetitive and imitative approaches."	Artificial, intelligence, logic, machine, model, philosophy, robot
999	ENRICHMENT STUDIES OF IRON ORE IN SİVAS REGION WITH DRY MAGNETIC SEPARATION AND PROPER PLANT DESIGN	In this study, strategies for enrichment of iron ore samples of Demir Export A.Ş. via conventional', 'magnetic separation were evaluated. Fe% and SiO2 % of the iron ore used in the study is', 'measured as in between 53.20-53.78 and above 10.5, respectively. Also, Al2O3 content is', '2.3% and total alkali content (K2O + Na2O) is over 0.6%. Fe content of the ore meet the basic', 'market sales requirements. On the other hand, silica, alumina and alkali contents are close to or', 'slightly above the value defined as rejection limit. Experimental studies have been carried out', 'in order to overcome these problems, especially the impurity content. Considering the current', 'production method, it has been determined that the developed method should be a dry separation', 'method, and therefore dry magnetic separation tests were planned and carried out. In addition,', 'heavy liquid tests have been applied to reveal the best quality products that can be produced', 'from the ore. Experimental studies have shown that 68% (61.26% Fe) and 92% (55.39% Fe)', 'of products can be obtained from size fractions of -30 + 10 mm and -10 mm, respectively.	Hematite, High intensity dry magnetic separation, Dense medium, Plant design
1000	INVESTIGATION OF THICKNESS AND BRIGHTNESS CHANGE WITH SHEWHART CONTROL CHARTS IN NATURAL STONE POLISHING PROCESS	In recent years, several studies have been conducted to reduce the defects that may occur', 'during the production phase with a view to ensure that the products introduced to the market', 'under developing technology and competitive conditions meet the desired quality requirements.', 'Statistical quality control is vital for the process of enhancing, improving and controlling the', 'production phase. In this study, Shewhart control charts (the control charts for variables) are', 'obtained for the purpose of identifying any potential change in the thickness and brightness values', 'for two different natural stone samples produced in the natural stone plant in Afyonkarahisar /', 'Turkey. Statistical process control techniques, which play a key role in those quality studies,', 'help businesses improve, enhance and control the production processes. Thanks to statistical', 'process control techniques, the problems experienced during the production processes could be', 'identified and the causes of those problems could be analysed to take action in order to prevent', 'recurrence of the situation.	Shewhart, Quality, Control chart, Natural stone
1001	A simple Technique for Preventing Vortex With Some Aspects of Flow under Inclined Sluice Gates	In this paper the effect of vortex formation upstream inclined sluice gate, discharge coefficient as well as predicted discharge equation have been studied for several gate openings (3,4&4.5) cm, five dischargesand three different gate cases, vertical and inclined', ' opposite flow direction in (30 and 45)° angles.', 'It was found that there is no vortex at vertical sluice gate but observed at gate inclined opposite flow direction. There are tow corner vortices in high discharges and one central vortex in low discharges. The reduction of these vortices has been studied by vortex decay elements.', 'The average discharge coefficient for vertical gate was 0.645 while these values reduced to 0.59 and 0.564 for gate inclined (30 and 45)° opposite flow direction respectively	vortex, sluice gate, hydraulic, discharge coefficient, vortices decay
1002	FLOW MEASUREMENTS IN ROUGH FREE OVERFALL	"In this paper, the relation between the brink and critical depth is studied experimentally and theoretically to predicted theoretical discharge equation using in rough free overfall. Three different; bed rough materials, sizes and distributions were used and tested experimentally to developed the discharge relationship. An equation is proposed to determine the flow rate using brink depth for a channel of known roughness, Froude number and normal depth. The equation shows that (95) % of the estimated discharge within (4) % error of the experimental data. The magnitude of the ratio (y', 'b', '/y', 'c', ') dependent of both the free overfall roughness materials and its distribution, the maximum values of this relation were happened at smooth free overfall andreduced', 'gradually at rough one for wood material, then more decreases for 6mm and 2mm stone material."	free overfall, brink depth, normal depth, bed roughness
1008	OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE OF A CONVENTIONAL TWO-COMPARTMENT BALL MILL GRINDING CIRCUIT AT DIFFERENT CEMENT PRODUCTIONS	The purpose of the study is to assess the grinding and classification performance of a', 'conventional Polysius® two-compartment ball mill and a Sepol® dynamic air classifier closed', 'circuit process at Portland CEMI/42.5R and Portland composite CEMII/32.5R cement production', 'types. For this purpose, industrial scale sampling surveys were performed around the circuit.', 'JKSimMet Steady State Mineral Processing Software was used to perform mass balance around', 'the circuits. Size reduction performance of the ball mill was determined for the sampling cases.', 'Classification performance of the dynamic air classifier was evaluated based on the efficiency', 'curve approach. It was determined that, approximately 12% circuit capacity increase could be', 'achieved in composite cement production when ball mill, ball mill filter and air classifier power', 'consumptions were considered. This figure corresponded to overall energy savings of 7% in ball', 'mill grinding.	Grinding, Ball mill, Air classifier, Cement, Energy
1010	Effects of sugar concentrations on in vitro micropropagation of spathiphyllum	Photoautotrophic micropropagation can be described as a tissue culture technique in which, all required carbon is supplied from carbon dioxide. Preparing the medium without or with low concentration of sugar, which is a source of organic carbon, is the main condition. Decreasing some problems as vitrification and contamination, lowering high input and labour costs and improving the acclimatization capacity of in vitro plantlets are the main advantages of photoautotrophic micropropagation. The present study was carried out to determine the compatibility of spathiphyllum for in vitro photoautotrophic micropropagation by proliferation and rooting ability of microshoots on different sugar concentrations.In shoot multiplication trial, micro shoots in 8-10 mm length with two leafs were planted in MS + 0.5 mg/l BAP + 0.1 mg/l NAA medium and in rooting experiment shoots in 25 mm length were transferred on MS + 0.1 mg/l NAA. Both media prepared with four different sugar concentrations (', '0, 10, 20, 30 g/l', '). In multiplication stage, significant differences were found between medium with sugar and without sugar at proliferation rate, new shoot number/exp. and length, shoot fresh weight, leaf colour values and growth score parameters.10, 20, 30 g/l', ' sugar concentrations', 'gave the highest proliferation rate with means of 4.4, 4.6, 5.4 shoots per explant and 0g/l doses', ' gave 0.7 shoot/exp. respectively. A positive relationship was found between the increase in sugar concentration and rooting rate, root number, shoot fresh weight, root dry weight. 100% rooting percentage, 16.1-8.8 root number per explant 518.9-440.6 mg root fresh weight were verified for20, 30 g/lsugar respectively. In this study conditions,photoautotrophic micropropagation was not be occurred exactly andthe presence of20 or 30 g/lsugar concentrations was necessary for efficient in vitro proliferation and rooting of Spathiphyllum.	Peace lily, tissue culture, photoautotrophic, nutrient medium, micro shoots, sucrose
1013	Osteochondral Tissue Engineering	Treatment of osteochondral defects can not be completely achieved in orthopaedic surgery. Osteochondral defects reflect damage to both the articular cartilage as well as the underside subchondral bone. The treatment strategies should take into consideration the physical and chemical properties of cartilage, bone and cartilage-bone interface. Although there are several surgical methods developed for the treatment of osteochondral defects, both of them have ensured temporary healing. Therefore, there have been intense efforts on alternative strategies for osteochondral regeneration. At this point, osteochondral tissue engineering have come to the forefront by using the combinations of biomaterials, cells and several bioactive molecules. In this review, fundamentals of osteochondral tissue engineering, osteochondral tissue structure and surgical treatment methods, the biomaterials used and design of single/multiphasic scaffolds, growth factors and cells are comprehensively presented with the current literature examples.	Osteochondral tissue engineering, multiphasic scaffold, growth factor, chondrocyte, stem cell
1018	Development of an optimization solver with generalized reduced gradient method	In this study, an optimization solver was developed by using the generalized reduced gradient method in order to solve a benchmark optimization problem in the literature. The MATLAB programming language was used in the development of the optimization solver. In the benchmark optimization problem, the objective function is the minimization of volume a cantilever beam that consist of N segments that have different height and thickness values which are the design variables. The bending stress value at the left end of each segment of the cantilevered is the functional constraint whereas the ratio of the width to the height at each segment is defined as the geometric constraint. The results that are obtained by the developed solver and sequential quadratic programming method that is in the MATLAB are compared and the proper parameters are obtained for 25 segments. As a result, it has been shown by tests that the developed solver by the generalized reduced gradient method is a descent solver that can be used to solve the optimization problems.	Optimization, Generalized Reduced Gradient Method, Moving Back to Feasible Region
1019	PRODUCTION AND ANALYSIS OF FUNCTIONAL SEBS NANOFIBERS BY ELECTROSPINNING	Thermoplastic elastomers (TPE) offers wide design opportunities because of its rapid prototyping that provides researchers with the acquisition of many different material properties from softness and jelly-like properties to hardness and rigidity. In this regard, poly(styrene-b-(ethylene-cobutylene)-b-styrene) (SEBS) triblock copolymer has many positive aspects and is very promising when the design and requirements of devices for different applications are considered. The combination of thermoplastic and elastomeric properties of SEBS triblock copolymer makes it one of the potential materials in the production of large-scale materials. In this study, highly elastic and functional nanofibers from SEBS triblock copolymer with the diameters of 286±93 nm were produced successfully by electrospinning for the first time, to the best of our knowledge. We believe that SEBS-based functional electrospun nanofibers will find widespread applications in medicine and water purification in the near future	poly (styrene-b- (ethylene-co-butylene)-bstyrene), electrospinning, nanofibers, medical, filtration
1021	TRANSDISCIPLINARY APPROACH IN DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT	"Along with rapid population growth, irregular and unplanned developments in settlements also increase disaster losses. Reducing disaster risks and preventing disasters will only be possible through successful disaster risk management, which will be implemented with a multidisciplinary approach. Determination of hazards and risks, field trials, preparation of hazard and risk maps, construction of early warning systems for disasters of different origins, determination of prevention techniques often requires engineering works. In addition to branches such as Earth Sciences (Geological Engineering), Meteorological Engineering, Civil Engineering, Mining Engineering, Geophysical Engineering and Environmental Engineering as well as geography, public administration, anthropology, sociology, psychology etc. in the field of social sciences should be included in the process. The studies show that disaster risk management processes, which lack the social dimension and lack a multidisciplinary approach, cannot be successful.In this context, it is necessary to incorporate specialist teams in different areas that have gained theoretical knowledge and practical skills in advanced level for different disaster types and different stages of disaster management. Recent studies have also shown that interdisciplinary studies are inadequate in some cases; non-governmental organizations and private sector participation must be ensured, and the importance of transdisciplinary approaches in the disaster risk management process is emphasized."	Disaster Risk Management, Disaster, Transdisciplinary Approach
1022	A PARTICLE SWARM ALGORITHM FOR MANUAL LIFTING TASKS DESIGN	"In recent years although the Industry 4.0 concept, which has been used in almost all stages, is still on the agenda, many lifting operations are still carried out manually.', 'In terms of occupational health and safety, many legal regulations and the standards brought by various institutes, especially suitable for manual transport work is an important problem.', 'Generally related to the lifting work; weight, working environment, load related shape, ease of handling etc. while the information is known, where the load is to be moved, how often, how much height and distance to be taken into consideration, the best values in terms of workplace design are the parameters that should be found when the laws and regulations are taken into consideration.', 'The aim of this study is to propose a workplace design that minimizes physical stress by considering the predefined conditions for the work to be done. Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm has been used to design safe working areas for jobs requiring load removal within the constraints of the work area.', 'Test problems related to workplace design which minimizes manual load lifting index presented by NIOSH are solved and compared with current studies.', 'The proposed algorithm offers better designs compared to existing methods in such problems."	Manuel lifting task, Workplace design, Particle Swarm Optimization
1023	Static Deflections Analysis of Long Rectangular Sandwich Plates	In this study, static deflections of laterally loaded long rectangular sandwich plates were investigated. Symmetrically laminated quasi-isotropic carbon/epoxy plates were used for the face sheets (skins) and balsa wood for the core. Boundary conditions were considered as simply supported and clamped. Maximum deflections were obtained for the parameters such as thicknesses of core material and face sheets, lamination sequences of face sheets and boundary conditions in long plate approximation. Results were compared with those of numerical study based on Finite Element Method and found in good agreement. Maximum deflections of sandwich plates in same weight were investigated too and found larger at the thin core and thick face sheets condition.	Maximum deflection, Parametric study, Sandwich plates
1024	ERGONOMIC RISK PERCEPTION OF WOMEN WORKING IN METAL INDUSTRY: A SURVEY	"In this study, it is aimed to evaluate the ergonomic risk perceptions of women working in metal industry in terms of Occupational Health and Safety. For this purpose, 1918 female workers working in the metal industry in our province were measured by ergonomic risk perception, fatalism perception and safety awareness in a workplace.', 'In this questionnaire, using the scale of ergonomic risk perception created by the researchers, the scale of security awareness and fatalism used in other studies were used.', 'The data were analyzed by using SPSS package program and their perceptions about ergonomic risks were analyzed by using factor analysis, correlation and t tests.', ""In this study, musculoskeletal problems emerged as the first priority in women workers as ergonomic risk factors by considering the characteristics of women's work."	Ergonomics, Ergonomic risk perception, Metal industry, woman, occupational safety
1025	ANALYSIS OF PHYSICAL STRAIN EXPOSED TO NURSES WHO WORK IN NOROLOGY INTENSIVE CARE UNIT	"The Intensive Care Unit', 'employees face biological, chemical, physical, psychosocial and biomechanical risks due to the services they provide. In the intensive care unit, the adjustment of ergonomic factors such as easily adjustable bearings, auxiliary lifting and transport vehicles, taking into account anthropometric measurements are of great importance in preventing musculoskeletal disorders.', 'In this study, the determination of the stresses of nurses and other health personnel working in Neurology Intensive Care Unit of a hospital during patient care and transportation by REBA method is discussed. In the unit, 11 operations such as positioning of bed and bed linen were determined and 15 nurses working in unit were observed and REBA scores were determined. The REBA scores of the operations ranged from 2 to 10. Alternative solutions have been developed in order to prevent these difficulties and to bring to the level of the risks', ""to an acceptable level. The REBA score was 9 to 2 with the patient's carriage which was recommended for use in wrinkled bed sheet editing and stretching with the highest risk score; It is estimated that the REBA score will decrease from 9 to 3 with the use of sliding sheets in the process of pulling the patient to bed. It is estimated that the REBA score will decrease from 9 to 2 with the patient carrying lift which is recommended for use in wrinkled bed sheet editing and stretching with the highest risk score and "", '', 'the REBA score will decrease from 9 to 3 with the use of sliding bed sheets in the process of pulling the patient to bed."	Neurology ıntensive care unit, REBA, Patient transportation techniques, Nurse.
1027	School Based Disaster Education	"“School Based Disaster Education Project” was signed between Ministry of National Education and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), to dissemination of disaster education and to effectively conduct studies for minimizing disaster damages; and total of 80 pilot schools were chosen from 8 provinces (İstanbul, Bursa, Balıkesir, Çanakkale, Kocaeli, Sakarya, Tekirdağ ve Yalova) of Marmara Region and from Düzce and Bolu. Roles of three working groups established was defined to be conducting and dissemination of the project, comparing training programs of Japan and Turkey, and redefining Disaster and Emergency Plans and applying the same more effectively, respectively for group one, group two, and group three. Within the scope of the project four books, namely “Basic Disaster Knowledge”, “Disaster Education (Theory and Practice)”, “Guidebook for School Disaster and Emergency Management Planning”, and “Training Evaluation Method” were prepared, and these books were delivered to several schools, pilot schools in the pilot provinces being in the first place. Our objective is to give information on the studies and activities conducted, books prepared, and results obtained within the scope of the project, and to contribute to the studies to be conducted with this perspective."	School, Disaster, Education, Emergency, Plan
1032	Community Resilience Against Disasters	"Disasters effects daily life and can lead loss of life and property, and destabilize the human environment. When combined with natural or technological hazard, risk and vulnerability, destructive disasters may occur. In recent years, with increasing economic, sociological, environmental and physical vulnerabilities, disasters have begun to occur more frequently, especially in developing countries. According to ISDR 2015 report; it is estimated that the property damage caused by disasters in the world reaches an average of 314 billion US dollars annually. In the last 10 years, only the number of meteorological disasters has increased by 14%. Reducing the possible effects of disasters can be possible with a successful disaster risk management and with increasing disaster resilience. If the disaster resilience is low in the society and the vulnerability is high, it is inevitable to be exposed to the disasters and its destructive effects. This article examines the concept of disaster resilience and assesses the work that can be done to increase disaster resilience in society in the framework of the HFA and Sendai Action Plans, which have been brought to the agenda by UNISDR."	Resilience, Disaster Risk Management, Hyogo Action Plan, Sendai Action Plan
1035	INVESTİGATİON OF TENSİONAL FİSSURES İN KARAHAYIT (DENİZLİ) SETTLEMENT AREA AND THEİR TECTONİCAL - PALEOSEİSMOLOGİCAL İNTERPRETATİON	NS-SW directional normal faults and opening cracks are found in Denizli area due to NE-SW directional tectonic opening. There are a lot of opening cracks between Pamukkale and Karahayıt. The active Pamukkale fault, which produces earthquakes in historical periods, located on the east of Karahayit. The cracks in the region are structures those formed parallel to this fault and formed by the same opening tectonics. Karahayit is known to have water outflows from the cracks in the settlement area 20-30 years ago. However, as the water level falls, the water flow is cut off from the cracks and the gap between the cracked surfaces is filled with natural and anthropogenic materials. The cracks on which it is built are artificially covered with concrete or covered with paving stone. Even if the newly furnished parquet closes the crack, the back topography reveals the position of the crack. It is noteworthy that the old paving stones played from time to time throughout the cracked line. Various structural damages were observed due to the construction of the structure on the crack. These damages appeared in the walls as cracks, opening in the building joints. Crack and fault behavior are structurally different. The faults move in a very short period of time, causing earthquakes and damage to structures. Opening cracks, however, are opened with very little movement over a longer time period. Therefore, the damages on the structures are observed over a longer period of time. The presence of water flow in these cracks does not mean that the crack does not move. As long as the tectonic opening in the region continues, these cracks, which are zones of weakness, will continue to open.	Fault, Crack, Karahayıt, Tectonical opening, Travertine, Structural damage
1040	Hazard Classification of Equipments: DOW F&E Index	Major industrial accidents are low probability and high consequence events. These events could occur in the form of fire, explosion and/or toxic release. Fires, especially, have the potential of high heat radiation to equipments and could cause secondary and tertiary events .such as fires, explosions and toxic releases. It is possible to manage fire risk with the definition of equipments, which have the high fire potential by using proactive approaches. There have been some methods to define high-risk potential equipments. Dow Fire & Explosion Index Methodology is a commonly used method for this purpose. The method considers general and special process hazards as well as health, reactivity and flammability properties of chemicals. General process hazards are consist of six key elements: exothermic chemical reactions, endothermic processes, material handling and transfer, enclosed or indoor process units, access and drainage and spill control. Twelve special process hazards are considered as toxic material(s), sub-atmospheric pressure, operation in or near flammable range, dust explosion, pressure, low temperature, quantity of flammable/unstable material, corrosion and erosion, leakage, joints and packing, use of fired equipment, hot oil heat exchange system and rotating equipment. Special process hazards could be directly or indirectly responsible for fire and explosions. Fire and explosion index is estimated considering general, special process hazards and material factor. F&EI Index is a guide to prioritize process equipments concerning fire and explosion risks. The main purpose of this study is to define equipments that have high fire and explosion risks at an industrial facility. Dow F&EI methodology was followed for this purpose. Classification of hazardous process equipments to prevent catastrophic events and their effects is the point of origin to manage fire risks. If the methodology would perform during the plant design and installation processes, inherently safer process goal would also be achieved.	risk, fire, explosion, Dow Index
1041	DETECTION OF CHERRY ON TREE ABSTRACT	In this study, the difficulties of the cherry producers during the cherry harvesting were investigated. In the view of the information obtained from the producers of cherries, the problem of determining the location of the cherries, where the cherries are located, has been solved by the image processing method.', '', 'Cherry is a fruit that has a very short harvest time. Because of the unfavorable nature of the land where the trees are located, the use of autonomous systems in the cherry harvesting process can make it easier for the harvesters to harvest. When the details of the cherry picking process are evaluated, it has been seen that such an autonomous machine should solve three successive problems, such as determining the cherry, determining the coordinates of the cherry and breaking the cherry in the determined chord. In this study, an application related to the detection of the cherry which is the primary of these problems is designed with image processing method. As a controller, Raspberry Pi 3 card is used for image processing and in software side, C software language, QT Creator compiler and OpenCV library are used.As a result, when there is no high backlight, the detection of the cherry, that reaches the harvestable level, in the tree has been achieved with 100% success. However, in the case of high backlight, the system could not detect it because it was darker than the cherry	Cherry picking, Intelligent cherry picking machine, image processing
1046	ENCAPSULATION OF PHENOLIC COMPOUNDS	"Encapsulation technology is a frequently applied method both in academic and industrial fields today. The encapsulation process used to protect the stability of the active substance, increase efficiency, protect from external influences and slow down will be integrated by covering or imprisoning an active substance with another substance. Encapsulation is divided into nano and micro according to their sizes.', 'There are many techniques in which the encapsulation process is applied. Some of these techniques are spray drying, spray cooling, extraction, coevaporation, lyophilization and emulsification. When the appropriate one of these techniques is preferred, these factors are taken into account; the structure of the active substance forming the core, the application of the microcapsule or nanocapsule, the desired particle size to be obtained, the physical and chemical properties of the core and core wall, the release mechanism, taken. The size and surface analysis of nano / micro-sized spheres obtained by various methods is a guide for reaching the target product.Phenols are benzene rings with a hydroxyl group useful in many respects for organisms secreted by plants. It is an essential compound used in encapsulation applications and used in the fields of pharmacy, medicine, chemistry and the industry."	Phenolics, Encapsulation, Micro-encapsulation, Nano-encapsulation
1052	Structural and Optical Properties of In2O3 Films Produced by SprayPyrolysis Technique	Indium oxide (In2O3) semiconducting films, as one of important transparent conducting oxides, have been produced by spray pyrolysis technique on glass substrates at 300, 350 and 400 °C substrate temperatures. X?ray diffraction studies showed that the samples have body centered cubic In2O3 structure and the increasing of substrate temperature improves the structural properties of the films. From field emission scanning electron microscopy results, the films adhered well to the substrates and show a homogeneous distribution with layers of fine grains. The samples have exhibited direct transition with the band gap values lying in the range between 3.38 – 3.67 eV using transmittance measurements. The refractive index and extinction coefficient as a function of wavelength for the samples were investigated from reflectance spectrum by applying the envelope method in the strongly absorbing regime. The optical parameters of the In2O3	Indium oxide, Spray pyrolysis, Envelope method, Dielectric constants
1059	A MATHEMATICAL MODEL FOR ELECTRO-THERMOELASTIC ANALYSIS OF FIBER REINFORCED PIEZOELECTRIC COMPOSITES	This study aims to develop constitutive equations for linear thermoelastic analysis of a composite material having piezoelectric feature and reinforced by arbitrary a fiber family. Fiber-reinforced composite media are assumed to be of anisotropic nature and are considered to be compressible due to their piezoelectric properties. Besides, it is assumed that the fiber family is inextensible. In addition, since the composite material is insensitive to the directional change along the fiber, it is mathematically unaffected by the change B??B of fiber vector, so a symmetric a symmetric tensor, which is the outer product of the components of the fiber vector, is defined. The basis of this work is the equations of electro-thermomechanical equilibrium equations, fiber deformation geometry and kinematics. The use of constitutive axioms has shown that the stress potential is dependent on the Green deformation tensor, the fiber distribution tensor, the electric field vector and the absolute temperature, andthe heat vector function is dependent on together with these magnitudes the gradient of the temperature field. Because of the anisotropic nature of the composite media, the stress potential and heat vector functions are found in approximate theories, and all of the interactions are considered as linear and series expansion is performed. Field equations are found as a result of substituting the expressions in equilibrium equations and the linear constitutive equations of symmetric stress, polarization and heat flux vector written in spatial coordinates.	Balance equations, Field Equations, Tensor of fiber distribution, Stress, Polarization, Heat flux, Thermoelasticity, Anisotropy, Piezoelectric
1060	The Effects of Chaos Theory on The Measurement and Metrology	In all sciences, especially inPhysics, a reform has occurred with the transition to the micro world order. Classical Physics Theory put forward by Newton has been worn with Einstein's and other scientists' Quantum Physics research. Both Theory of Quantum Physics and Theory of Classical Physics have led to the destruction of linearity thought. The sine qua non of the Measuring System, Metrology, has also got its share from the Chaos Theory, which causes so much change. In this study, how measurement, which attaches importance to the linearity, and, in the scope of distance measurement, Metrology has been affected by the Chaos Theory at the end of study even the Chaos Teory shows us to how can we discover disasters is examined.	Chaos, Measurement, Metrology, Fractal, Measurement Error
1062	New Cooling Design and Analysis for Park-Garden Lighting Fixtures	New lighting technologies make life easier and promise to better lighting conditions. However, when luminaires aren't planned properly, the lifetime of the luminaire can be shorter than expected. Increasing efficiency of LED technology helped LED's to having more space in our lives with lighting. LED manufacturers say that their LED's have 50.000-60.000 hours lifespan with test reports. But, these tests were performed under specific temperature conditions. Therefore, when designing luminaires and LED modules, LED heatsink must provide these conditions. In this study, a new generation LED based park-garden lighting fixture cooler body was designed. This design (LED luminaire) can replace compact fluorecent lamp based fixtures operate on principle of direct lighting up to 100W and 70, 100, 150W metal halide based fixtures which operate on indirect lighting principle. Also this new design and LED based luminaire will save 40-60% energy.	Luminaire, LED, Light, Thermal, Heatsink
1063	Investigation of the Effect of Drill Geometry on Tool Wear and Chip Formation	In this study, the effects of different drill geometries and cutting parameters on tool wear and chip formation forms are evaluated. It has been observed what parameters affect tool wear and chip formation form by making 100 test revolutions for 16 different combinations with different geometry sets and different cutting condition combinations. Experimental studies have used four different geometries, 10mm diameter, two-spindle, helical, solid cementite carbide drill with original two-channel geometry developed with the common two-tool geometry commercially available and GGG 50 spherical graphite cast iron material as workpiece material. For experiment design, a Taguchi Test Design was created with three different control factors of four levels, geometric form of cutter, cutting speed and feed amount. When evaluating the test results, radial wear and outer wear are observed in all tools, but radial wear is generally increased with progressive increase.	Drilling, Helical Drill, Drill Geometry, GGG50, Tool Wear, Chip Formation Forms
1064	Server Virtualization Using Cloud Computing for Large Scale Data Centers	Cloud Computing, easy to manage, scalable according to needs, which is easily accessible from many different devices, common resources can be defined as information services offered on. Cloud Computing, which offers flexible structure of institutions is helping to manage IT services. Cloud approach, reduce costs, although reducing the risks offers a safer work environment. In this study of institutions with large-scale data centers, cloud computing service model, which is offered as a service infrastructure to the method of how to virtualize physical servers can reduce costs is discussed. In this context, data center, an institution consisting of purely physical server, the existing server resources that can be scaled, high availability and disaster recovery structure on a virtual platform for the transfer and the benefits gained from the studies are mentioned.	Virtualization, Cloud Computing, Large Scale Data Centers
1065	RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN ORGANIZATIONAL IDENTIFICATION, ORGANIZATIONAL CYNICISM AND ORGANIZATIONAL DISSENT: AN EMPIRICAL RESEARCH	Organizational identification is an assertion of the employee’s property  of impression to his/her organization. The high levels of  organizational identification of employees’ bring back various positive  behavior variables. Otherwise, the low levels cause the unwanted  behavior variables in the organization. Organizational cynicism and  Organizational dissent are located in these attitudes and behaviors.  This study aims to measure the relationship of organizational  identification with other organizational negative behavioral varibles.  The sample of research consists of 161 people who are working for a  public corporation in Ankara as white-collar employees. The scales used  previously in other Turkish studies were used as measurement  techniques. Research, the data is collected by face to face discussion  and these data is analyzed by SPSS 22, by statistic methods like mean,  standard deviation and correlation. As a result of analysis, between  organizational identification and both organizational cynicism and  organizational dissent, there is a correlation which is established as  moderately and reverse direction.	Identification, Organizational Identification, Cynicism, Organizational Cynicism, Dissent, Organizational Dissent